he

7+

SABRE BO MSE
i oe ies deity

ISBN 0-14-036407-2 = ., 4
if BR _
— Se
: - ‘

FIGHTING FANTASY BOOKS

Over 13 million copies sold worldwide!

Y gue KCKSON AND
lg LIVINGSTONE

PRESENT _

NOSMDVI FASLS

wei vthe

Sa =

dt Bee ncxhing ltt he EOE
the savage Drage Rca oh AL, "lel <5 ut
wertul magical energy WRIC will Soot

AE er cross: into this world, Hit swecceds, all Allar

will be crushed henvath its claws!

Even the legendary Gonclave of Dragons is powerle
tostop the creature. A human hero is needed —ahert
like YOU! Many monstrous adversaries are ranged

ANOLSONIATI NVIGNV

i so tbs “i

woseig yysIn

against you: butalong the way you may find ancien 7 ee a ae aa - |
artefacts to help you dn your quest Ultimacely, hal fay! ia Sea 154 Fe
ever, only: extraordinary heroism: will stud agate » ACA UISY ee SER Ay
the Night Dragon. Dare YOU accept the avery \) i : J % YN
j S ‘ M ~*~ , ae f i : y y,
FIGHTING FANTASY — THE WORLID'S N - he, aS ee, 3 \
POPULAR ADVENTURE GAMEBOOK SERIE Se, ca _,
a > NE oF ie A -
Cover cid Ulvstutions by Tony: Hour ; pss ae tee TN +. 3 4
Mes Wy.” , 2 Of Ww

cn
ro

Mh

==

im

z=

se
a.

ue

iy
,

Puffin Books

NIGHT DRAGON

The Night Dragon = 4 creature of pure evil from a time befor
Hime existed, $0 lnwnenke nothing will be able to contain tt) Oop
beneath the savage Dragon Reaches in sorthem Allassis. {tis
sicking-in powerful magical energy which will soon allow it ty
crosé inte ‘this world, iF it succeeds all Titan will be crashed

beneath its monstrous claws!

Even the legendary Conclave of Dragons is powerless to stop the
creature. A human hero is needed — a hero like YOU! Many
monstrous adversaries are ranged against you, but along the way
you may find ancient artefacts to help you in your quest.
Ultimately, however, only extraordinary heroism will stand
against the Night Dragon. Dare YOU accept the quest?

Two dice, a pencil and an eraser are all you need to embark on
this stunning adventure, which comes complete with its own
elaborate combat system and a score sheet to record your
progress.

Many dangers lie ahead and your success is anything but certain.
Powerful sorcerous enemies are ranged against you and it’s up to
YOU to decide which route to follow, which dangers to risk and
which foes to fight. The Night Dragon must be stopped!
Fighting Fantasy Gamebooks =
Steve Jackson and Ian Livingstone

1. THE WARLOCK OF FIRETOP 26. CRYPT OF THE SORCERER
MOUNTAIN 27 STAR STRIDER
2 THE CITADEL OF CHAOS 28 PHANTOMS OF FEAR Pp resent
3 THE FOREST OF DOOM 2g. MIDNIGHT ROGUE
4. STARSHIP TRAVELLER 30 CHASMS OF MALICE
5. CITY OF THIEVES 31. BATTLEBLADE WARRIOR
6. DEATHTRAP DUNGEON 52. SLAVES OF THE ABYSS
7. ISLAND OF THE LIZARD KING 33 SKY LORD
3 SCORPION SWAMP 34 STEALER OF SOULS
9. CAVERNS OF THE SNOW 35. DAGGERS OF DARKNESS
WITCH 36 ARMIES OF DEATH
10, HOUSE OF HELL 37. PORTAL OF EVIL
11. TALISMAN OF DEATH 38 VAULT OF THE VAMPIRE
1z.SPACE ASSASSIN . 39. FANGS OF FURY
13 FREEWAY FIGHTER 40 DEAD OF NIGHT 7 ,
14 TEMPLE OF TERROR. 41 MASTER OF CHAOS Keith Martin
15 THE RINGS OF KETHER 42. BLACK VEIN PROPHECY
16. SEAS OF BLOOD 43. THE KEEP OF THE LICH-LORD
17. APPOINTMENT WITH FEAR 44. LEGEND OF THE SHADOW Illustrated by Tony Hough
18 REBEL PLANET WARRIORS
19. DEMONS OF THE DEEP 45, SPECTRAL STALKERS
20. SWORD OF THE SAMURAI 46. TOWER OF DESTRUCTION
21 TRIAL OF CHAMPIONS 47. THE CRIMSON TIDE
22, ROBOT COMMANDO 48 MOONRUNNER
23. MASKS OF MAYHEM 49 SIEGE OF SARDATH
24 CREATURE OF HAVOC 50. RETURN TO FIRETOP
25. BENEATH NIGHTMARE MOUNTAIN
CASTLE 51 PLAGUE OF THE UNDEAD
Steve Jackson’s SORCERY"
1. THE SHAMUTANTI HILLS 5, THE SEVEN SERPENTS
2 KHARE - CITYPORT OF TRAPS 4. THE CROWN OF KINGS

FIGHTING FANTASY ~ The Introductory Role-playing Game
THE RIDDLING REAVER - Four Thrilling Adventures

The Fighting Fantasy Novels

THE TROLLTOOTH WARS — Chaos Invades Allansia
DEMONSTEALER — Chadda Darkmane Retums
SHADOWMASTER — Chadda Darkmane and Death

The Advanced Fighting Fantasy System

OUT OF THE PIT — Fighting Fantasy Monsters

TITAN — The Fighting Fantasy World

DUNGEONEER - An Introduction to the World of Role-playing Games
BLACKSAND! — More Advanced Fighting Fantasy

PUFFIN BOOKS
PUFFIN BOOKS

Published by the Penguin Group
Pengunn Books Lid, 27 Wrights Lane, London w8 51z. England
Penguin Books USA Inc., 375 Hudson Street, New York. New York 10014, USA
Penguin Books Australia Ltd, Ringwood, Victoria. Australia”
Penguin Books Canada Ltd, 20 Alcorn Avenue, Toronto, Ontario, Canada mgv 5B2
Fenguin Books (NZ) Lid, 182-190 Walrau Road, Auckland 20, New Zealand

Penguin Books Lid, Registered Offices: Harmondsworth, Middlesex. England

First published 1993
579 10B 64

Concept copyright © Steve Jackson and [an Livingstone, 1993
Text copyright © Keith Martin. 1993
Ulustratrops copyright €) Tony Hough, 1993
All nghts reserved

The moral night of the author has been asserted

Typeset by Datix Internatlonal Ltd, Bungay, Suffolk
Filmsel un Monophoto Palatina
Printed in England by Clays Ltd, Si Ives plc

Except m the United States of America, this book is sold subject
ta the conditlon that it shall nat, by way of trade or othenvise, be lent,
re-sold, hired out, or otherwise circulated without the publisher's
prior consent in any form of bindlng or cover other than that in
whych it is published and without a similar condition including this

CONTENTS

INTRODUCTION
7

ADVENTURE SHEET
22
BACKGROUND
24
NIGHT DRAGON
29
INTRODUCTION

Before embarking on this adventure, you must frst
work out your strengths and weaknesses. You use dice
to determine your initial skILL, STAMINA and LUCK
scores. On pages 22-23 there is an Adventure Sheet
which you may use to record the details of your
adventure On it you will find boxes for recording
your SKILL, STAMINA and LUCK scores

You are advised either to record your scores on the
Adventure Sheet in pencil or to make photocopies of
the page for use in future attempts to complete this
adventure

Skill, Stamina and Luck

Roll one die. Add 6 to this number (so this score will
be between 7 and 12),

Roll two dice. Add 12 to the total rolled (so this score
will be between 14 and 24)

Roll one die. Add 6 to this number (so this score will
be between 7 and 12}

In this adventure, you play the role of a very skilled
adventurer whose talents have been developed
through experience. To reflect this, you may gain
additional sKILL, STAMINA and/or LUCK as you choose,
You have two ‘points’ to spend to adjust these scores;

7
for each ‘point’, you can do one of three things:
increase SKILL by 1, increase Luck by i, or increase
STAMINA by 2. You can make each choice only once
(you can’t use both choices in order to increase SKILL
by 2, for example), nor may you increase SKILL oF
Luck above a maximum of 12. When you have decided
how to spend these two precious points, record the
final numbers for your SKILL, STAMINA and LUCK in
the boxes on the Adventure Sheet

For reasons that .will be explained below, sxIL1,
STAMINA and Luck scores change constantly during
the adventure. You must keep an accurate record of
these scores and of the changes to theme for this
reason you are advised either to write small in the
baxes or to keep an eraser handy. But never rub out
your Initial scores. Although you may be awarded
additional sKiLt, STAMINA and Luck points, these
additions cannot raise any score above its Initial figure,
except on rare occasions when you will be instructed
accordingly in a particular paragraph.

Your skILt score reflects your swordmanship and gen-
eral fighting expertise; the higher the better. Your
STAMINA score reflects your general constitution, your
will to survive, your determination and overall fitness,
and your ability to take blows in battle; the higher
your stTAmina score, the longer you will be able to
survive. Your LUCK score indicates how naturally lucky
a person you are. Luck and magic are facts of life in
the exciting fantasy world you are about to explore.

Battles

You will often find yourself reading paragraphs in the
book which instruct you to fight a creature of some
sort. An option to flee may be given; if not — or if you
choose to attack the creature anyway — you must
resolve the battle as described below.

First, record the opponent's SKILL and STAMINA scores
in the first vacant Monster Encounter Box on your
Adventure Sheet, The scores for each creature are given
every time you have an encounter. The sequence for
combat is then:

1. Roll two dice for your opponent. Add its sKILL
score, This total is the creature's Attack Strength.

2. Roll two dice for yourself. Add your own skILL
score to the number rolled. This total is your
Attack Strength.

3. If your Attack Strength is higher than that of your
opponent, you have wounded it: proceed to step 4.
If your opponent’s Attack Strength is higher than
yours, it has wounded you: proceed to step s. [f
both Attack Strengths are the same, you have
avoided each other's blows; start the next Attack
Round from step 1, above.

4. You have wounded your opponent, so subtract 2
points from its STAMINA score. (You may use your
Luck here to do additional damage — see below.)
Proceed to step 6.

5. Your opponent has wounded you, so subtract 2

9
points from your own STAMINA score. (Again, you
may use your Luck here to reduce the damage
your opponent does to you — sée below.) Proceed
to step 6.

6. Make the appropriate change to either your oppo-
nent’s or your own STAMINA score (and to your
Luck score if you used Luck — see below).

7. Begin the next Attack Round (repeat steps 1-6).
The sequence continues until the stAMINA of either
you or your opponent has been reduced to zero

(death).

Fighting More Than One Creature

if you come across more than one opponent in a
particular encounter, the instructions in the relevant
paragraph will tell you how to handle the battle
Sometimes you will have to. fight them together;
sometimes you will be able to fight them one after the
other.

If you are told to fight your enemies all together, you
should determine the Attack Strength for all the com-
batants individually each Attack Round. Only the
combatant with the highest Attack Strength gets a
damaging blow in during that Attack Round. If you
have the highest Attack Strength you may choose
which of your enemies you strike. Obviously it is
best to land your blows on the same enemy until you
have slain him, to reduce the odds against you. Having
overcome one enemy, you then fight any that remain.

10

If you are told to fight your enemies one at a time,
you fight them individually — one at a time — and in
order, You must overcome the first before you fight
the second, and so on (if you are faced with more than
two enemies).

Luck

Al various times during your adventure, either in battles
or when you find yourself in a situation in which you
could be either Lucky or Unlucky {details of these are
given in the relevant paragraphs), you may call on your
LUCK to make the outcome more favourable. But beware!
Using Lucx is a risky business, and if you are Unlucky,
the results could be unfortunate or even disastrous!

The procedure for using your Lucx is as follows: roll
two dice, If the number rolled is less than or equal to
your current Luck score, you have been Lucky and the
result will go in your favour. If the number rolled is
higher than your current Luck score, you have been

Unlucky and will be penalized.

This procedure is known as Testing your Luck. Each time
you do this, you must subtract 1 point from your
current Luck score, whether the outcome is successful
or unsuccessful! You will soon realize that, the more
you rely on your Luck, the more risky this will become.

Using Luck in Battles

In certain paragraphs of the book you will be told to
Test your Luck; you will then be told the consequences

11
of your being Lucky or Unlucky. However, in battles
you always have the option of using your Luck either
to inflict a more serious wound on a creature you have
just wounded or to reduce the effects of a wound a
creature has just inflicted on you.

if you have just wounded an opponent you are fight-
ing, you may Test your Luck as described above. If you
are Lucky, you have inflicted a severe wound and may
deduct 2 extra points from your opponent's STAMINA
score (so that your blow reduces its STAMINA by 4
points, rather than the usual 2 points). However, if you
are Unlucky, the wound was a mere graze and you
must testore 1 point to your opponent’s STAMINA
score (instead of your blow causing the usual 2 points
of damage to its sTAMINA, it does only 1 point of
damage).

If your opponent has just wounded you, you may Test
your Luck to try to minimize this wound. If you are
Lucky, you have managed to avoid the full impact of
the blow and may restore 1 point to your own
STAMINA (instead of your opponent’s blow causing 2
points of damage to your STAMINA, it does only 1
point of damage). But if you are Unlucky, then you have
taken a more serious blow, and you must deduct 1
extra STAMINA point (so that your opponent’s blow
causes damage worth 3 sTAMINA points rather than
the usual 2). |

12

Restoring Skill, Stamina and Luck

Skill

Your SKILL score will not change very often during
your adventure. Occasionally a paragraph may give an
instruction to increase or decrease your SKILL score.
Your SKILL score cannot exceed its Initial score unless
you are specifically instructed to the contrary. You
will have the chance during this adventure to acquire
magic items, including a Magic Sword, which increase
your Attack Strength. If you acquire two Magic
Swords, you cannot gain bonuses to your Attack
Strength for both of them — you can only use one at a
time!

Testing Your Skill

Sometimes you will be instructed to Test your Skill,
This happens when you undertake an action which is
uncertain of success; how skilful you are will affect
whether you're successful or not. You Test your Skill
by rolling two dice and adding the scores together. If
the total rolled is less than or equal to your skILL, you
are successful. If the total rolled is greater than your
SKILL, you have failed. The relevant paragraphs will
tell you what success and failure mean when you Test
your Skill. However, you do not have to subtract any
points from your skiLL score for Testing your Skill in
this way; this is a crucial difference between Testing
your Skill and Testing your Luck!

Quite often, you may face a difficult task in which

13
your SKILL is tested to the full; for example, you may
be instructed to Test your Skill, ‘adding 2 to the
number rolled’. What this means is that when you roll
two dice you must then add z to the total: if you had
rolled a 4 and a 3, your modified total would thus be
9. You then compare this final total with your sKILL to
discover the outcome of the test.

Stamina and Provisions
Your STAMINA score will go up and down a lot during
your adventure as you fight enemies and undertake
arduous tasks. As you near your goal, your STAMINA
score may be dangerously low and battles may become
particularly risky, so be careful!

Your backpack contains enough Provisions for 12
meals. You may rest and eat at any time except when
fighting, but you may eat only one meal at a time.
Eating a meal restores 4 STAMINA points. When you
eat a meal, add 4 points to your current STAMINA
score and deduct 1 from the Provisions on your
Adventure Sheet. A separate Provisions Remaining box
is provided on your Adventure Sheet for recording
details of Provisions. You have a long way to go, so
use your Provisions wisely! Remember that your
STAMINA score may never exceed its Initial value
unless you are specifically instructed otherwise in a
paragraph.

There will be times during your adventure when you
will be told that you must eat a meal. When you have
to do this, deduct 1 point from your Provisions on
your Adventure Sheet, but you do not regain any lost

14

STAMINA for doing this. If you are told to eat a meal
but you don’t have any Provisions left, you must
subtract 2 points from your current STAMINA Score.

During your adventure, however, you should be able
to acquire at least some extra Provisions to add to the
store you begin with. This will enable you to maintain
STAMINA throughout the adventure. However, you
cannot carry more than 12 Provisions at any one time!

Luck

Your Luck score will also change during the adventure
as you Test your Luck. Additions to your LUCK score
may also be awarded when you have been especially
fortunate; similarly, you may be told to reduce your
Luck when you have made an important mistake;
details of such events are given in the appropriate
paragraphs of the book. Remember that, as with sKILi
and STAMINA scores, your LUCK may never exceed its
Initial value unless you are specifically told this.

Apart from Testing your Luck, you will also be given
some opportunities for ‘spending’ tuck. You will be
asked whether you wish to deduct 1 point from your
Current LUCK score in order to increase your chance of

a5
@ successful outcome — for example, you can aften
modify a dice-roll that you are told to make by
spending Lucx on it (in this case. you must decide
whether to spend the ruck point before you roll the
dice!) Of course, Luck points are precious and you
cannot afford this luxury very often. Making the right
choice about whether to spend a LUCK point in this
way can be vital for success in this adventure.

Honour

Honour is 3 measure both of your unselfish readiness
to help others, even if this delays you or puts you at
some disadvantage, and of your readiness to forgo
help offered you, which might imperil the person
offering it. It is also a measure of your standing as a
hero of your word, adhering to voluntary agreements
you have made! You will have few opportunities to

your Nemesis score, which begins at zero and should
also be kept track of in the appropriate box on your
Adventure Sheet. The higher this score climbs, the more
desperately your enemies will try to thwart you — but
also the more readily you will be helped by those who
have no love of those enemies!

During this adventure you may find many magic
ough at first you will probably not be sure
what they do! Such items may give you the ability to
cast a magic spell or create a magical effect; if you find
such an item, you will be instructed in its use in a
particular paragraph, Finding powerful magic is a major
goal of this adventure, so do your best to gain all that
you can — but, alas, you are also pressed for time and
cannot tarry overlong. You will have to make hard
choices about which magic items you try to obtain for
yourself in this adventure.

Poison

You are going to face some very evil opponents who
will not hesitate to use poisoned weapons against you!
Such weapons will inflict damage in addition to the

17
usual sTAMINA loss caused by physical harm; this
varies, depending how powerful the poison is. You
will be told how much damage you will sustain from
poison separately from physical weapon damage: you
lose STAMINA points from both, of course ~ but if you
arv fortunate enough to acquire herbal preparations
which counter poison, you will be able to use them
either to avoid or to heal damage by polson. Such
herbal antidotes will not, however, prevent or heal the
normal 2 points of staMINA loss caused by the physi-
cal effect of a weapon striking you,

Equipment

You start your adventure with some equipment that
you will need for the adventure ahead. You have a
sword, and you wear leather armour and carry a shield
for protection. You have a lantern which allows you
to see in the dark. You have enough Provisions for 12
meals inside a backpack, and you have some money
gained from previous adventures; roll two dice then
add + to the number rolled; this is the number of Gold
Pieces you have with you (between 5 and 15), Make a
note of your Gold Pieces in the Treasure box on your
Adventure Sheet (by the way, in the Background you

18

are about to read you will be given some extra gold,
which you can add to the initial amount you already
possess).

You may find treasure, in the form of Gold Pieces or
valuable objects and items, along the way; you should
record these in the Treasure box on your Adventure
Sheet. You may have opportunities for trading treasure
for equipment, help and information in this adventure,
so be honest about keeping an accurate record of how
much treasure you obtain!

Time

This adventure is something of a race against time.
You are not under intense time pressure, but you can’t
afford to waste it either. On the Adventure Sheef there
is a Time Track box. At the start of your adventure,
the score here is zero. You will be instructed in
appropriate paragraphs when to add to this number.
The higher it gets, the harder your final task will be,
so be careful when you choose where to go and what
to do during the arduous adventure which faces youl

Hints on Play

Your journey will be perilous and you may well fail on
your first attempt. Make notes and draw a map as you
explore — this map will prove invaluable in later forays
in this adventure, and it will enable you to progress
more rapidly to unexplored regions.

19
Not all areas contain treasure or useful information:
many contain traps and creatures which you will no
doubt fall foul of. You may take wrong turnings
during your quest and, while you may indeed progress
through to your ultimate destination, it is by no means
certain that you will find what you are searching for.
However, the more areas you explore, the better will
be your chance of success in the adventure ahead.

Be very wary about Testing your Luck unless a paragraph
tells you that you must do this! Generally, when it
comes to fights, you should Test your Luck only to keep
yourself alive if an opponent's blow would otherwise
kill you (so far as reducing your stamina loss from your
opponent's blows is concerned), The other occasion to
use LUCK is in order to inflict extra damage in the final
combat against your dire enemy in this adventure — if
you've got enough tuck left to use, Don’t Test your Luck
in order to try to do extra damage upon your enemy
unless this is really necessary! Luck points are precious!

The great quest to defeat the Night Dragon is a truly
perilous one. Your final enemy is powerful far beyond
the sKILL and sTAMINA values of mere morta] humans,
and you will need powerful magic to defeat your
nemesis. The Night Dragon has many allies, creatures
of evil and darkness; if you can defeat some of its
most powerful allies, you may have the chance to
weaken the great Dragon itself before you even encoun-
ter it, You should let no opportunity pass to do so!

It will be realized that paragraphs make no sense if
read in numerical order. It is essential that you read

20

only the paragraphs you are instructed to go to.
Reading other paragraphs lessens the excitement and
surprise during play. The only true way to success in
this adventure involves minimizing risk; any player, no
matter how weak his or her initial dice-rolls, should be
able to struggle through to glory.

May the luck of the gods go with you on the adven-
ture ahead — for this one you may well need it!

a1
ENCOUNTER BOXES

906 ae ee ma
SKILL STAMINA LUCK

Skitl= Skilf= Skill=

Initial Skiit= Tnittal Stamfna= Initial Luck=
Stamina=

Stamina= Staininas

ee ENE TEV OCD
: —s-e sae
PROVISIONS HONOUR Sstli= pour Skilf=
Sraminas Stamina= Stamina= |
eretr oe”?
TREASURE TIME TRACK EQUIPMENT Skilt= Skill=

Stamina=

Stamina=

Skill= Skitf=

Stamina= Stamina=

BACKGROUND

‘Beware Blacksand!’ The words still ring in your ears.
This is a city ruled by evil, full of thugs and rogues.
Every new morning brings a slumped body in a back
alley, its throat cut from ear to ear. Port Blacksand
isn’t a place anyone wants to stay in for long.

You're here because a man you trusted whispered that
a great challenge might be found here for you. You
live for adventure and great deeds, and your friend’s
expression told you that this was no trivial summons.
Setting aside your dislike of Blacksand, you found
yourself sitting in the Hemlock tavern in Clog Street
until late into the night, waiting for a messenger who
seemed never to come. It was long after the witching
hour, with the tavern about to close for the night,
when you were finally shown down to the cellars
where a mysterious, robed guest was waiting. You
drew your sword when you found that a Dark EIf
awaited you, but the weary way he held up his hand
and mumbled that he was not here to harm you made
you draw back.

Now you listen to his strange tale. He speaks as if he
does not have much time left to him to deliver it. ‘I
have come from the far north, from the Dragon
Reaches. A great and terrible enemy is growing even
more powerful there, and he will come to threaten all
Allansia if he is not overcome. My people have fried,

24

but we are few in number and we could not even
defeat the Stalkers protecting the monster. The sands
of time run low. Only a great hero could hope to
overcome the Night Dragon. It is an ancient being,
more powerful than the Old Ones. The Dragons
themselves have said to me that even a mortal Dragon
could not hope to scratch a single scale on the
Ancient’s hide.’

An Ancient Dragon! Even a mortal Dragon is a tertify-
ing enemy. How can you possibly hope to overcome
one far more powerful than its mortal kin? A human
would be destroyed with a single flick of such a
monster's claws.

The Dark EIf sees your thoughts reflected in your
eyes. ‘There would be no hope at all, were it not for
buried magic which the Dragons know of. They say it
could make a warrior powerful far beyond mortal
limits, if the right person came to take the sword,
shield and armour of heroes of legend and face the
Night Dragon. I sought for such a warrior for a long
time; yours was the name | heard mentioned over and
aver again.’

You are disbelieving, astonished by what the Dark EIf
says. Suddenly he coughs violently and you see blood
staining the handkerchief he holds over his mouth.

When he can speak again, there is a terrible urgency in
his voice, ‘Listen, human. Dragons themselves have
told me that when the creature awakens, his shadow
will lengthen over all the land and his dreams of
camage and slaughter will be a reality. They told me

25
that the Night Dragon was within Death's army in the
war of gads, before time came to Titan and brought
the mortal race with it. Can you imagine how powerful
this horror is becoming as it awakens? Never mind
your arch-mages, necromancers, petty tyrants and des-
pots. If the Night Dragon reawakens, they will be
scattered like dust in the wind. As will you and I.
There are signs already of his stirring from Dreamtime;
his Stalkers have begun to roam the northern moun-
tains — marauding reptile nightmares that they are.
Fortunately they are still few, and not yet as strong as
they will become, else I would not be here.’

You notice the heavy scars on the Dark Elf’s arm as
he gestures to emphasize the point, and your initial
suspicion of him begins to evaporate. He continues
beseeching your help.

‘The Dragons say that they are bound by their own
oath to Kilanirax, their god and creator. This oath
forbids any mortal Dragon to offer force to an Ancient
One; should one so much as lift a claw against an
Ancient, it would be struck down at once by a deadly
curse. Thus they are forced to seek help from others
They are surely not indulging in lies or deceit; in the
Conclave, I saw a Dragon of each type — Gold, Silver,
White, Black, Green, Red. Only extraordinary circum-
stances could bring together a full Conclave; the Drag-
ons of Law and Chaos have no love for each other.
For them to meet means that a terrible danger must be
at hand, as they say. All I ask is that you travel to
meet the Conclave of Dragons and hear what they
have to say

20

‘Go north to the port of Rentarn, and there take a
room at the Rudderless Galley tavern. Here — take this
silver key and use it to admit yourself to the room
there which has been readied for you. A messenger
will meet you in the tavern and he will tell you how
to find the Dragon Conclave. Lock, I even give you
the ten Gold Pieces you will need to pay for the sea
voyage there.’ For a moment, the Dark Elf almost
grins, albeit painfully. ‘Although you could save some
gold by taking the coast road, of course. Please. 1 only
ask you to travel and listen.’

How can you refuse? You take the silver key and the
to Gold Pieces.

The Dark Elf gets up and makes to leave, first telling
you that you can sleep in this safe tavern tonight. He
looks back at you with eyes dulled by pain, and his
hands have a fine tremor you didn’t see before. ‘I do
not want my people to die, any more than you wish
all the humans in this land to be slaughtered. If it has
cost me my own life to find you, my people will
remember me.’ He turns on his heel, coughing horribly,
and limps out of the cellar.

You do not have pleasant dreams this night . . .
Turn to paragraph 1.
1-4

1
A dark morning sky glowers over Port Blacksand and
a chill wind blows in from the Sword Coast. You can
head for Lobster Wharf to find a ship bound for
Rentarn (turn to 354), or leave the city by Weaver
Gate to take the north coastal road there (turn to 212).
You may prefer to buy some extra equipment first (if
you wish to do this, tim to 65).

2
The westward trail to the Mist Crypts is very arduous.
You can get almost enough to eat by scrounging and
foraging, but you must supplement this with two
meals during the lengthy journey. Add 8 to your Time
Track, but at last you reach your goal. Turn to 21.

3

The body is that of a man who has been robbed, badly
beaten and left for dead. He tries to speak but you
hush him to be silent. He points east, along a track,
and gestures for you to help him. You can leave him
here and continue along the road (turn to 304) or you
can carry him along the track, looking for help, even
though it could cost you a lot of time (turn to 176).

You advance, weapon and shield at the ready, as the
monster breathes. You must Test your Luck. If you are
Lucky, and if you also have a Magic Shield, multiply
the Shield Number by 5 and turn to that paragraph. If
you do not have a Magic Shield, or if you are
Unlucky, you take the Dragon’s breath right on your
5-6

body. Searing, dreadful heat is all round you; deduct 6
points from your sTAMINA. If you are still alive, tum

to 295.

5

You stand before a great snow-capped mountain peak.
Some intuition tells you that this is where the armour
must lie; perhaps the Dragons cast some spell upon
you to guide you to it... who can say? The peak is
huge, and you begin to despair of searching all round
it for a way in. However, after some preliminary
exploration you find a statue which points the way; if
you have a viewing lens, you can find this straight
away. Otherwise, you must add 1 to your Time Track,
The statue is that of a stone Dwarf, carved out of a
blue stone that is clearly alien to these mountains.
Following the direction his hand points to, you dis-
cover a small fissure in the rock, leading down into
the darkness. Lighting your lantern, you descend and
find yourself at a crossroads. Which tunnel will you
follow?

The right-hand tunnel? Turn to 19
The left-hand tunnel? Turn to 33
The tunnel straight ahead? Turn to 47

6
You confess that you need all the help you can get on
your great quest, and the Loremaster nods, perhaps a
little sadly. ‘So many dangers for a mortal to face. No
one, perhaps, has ever faced such a challenge since the
Godswar itself. Beware: a projection of the Night

6

Dragon itself may wander in Dreamtime and threaten
you; don’t be too greedy in taking the magic there.
Well then, lef us make preparation.” He ushers you
into a sumptuously decorated lounge with a huge,
wonderfully comfortable couch which you sink down
on very readily! The Loremaster fills a golden goblet
with silvery, sparkling liquid from a silver decanter
and bids you drink it. ‘Drink, sleep, and dream, my
brave friend,’ he says softly, ‘Greet the dreams and
destroy the nightmares! You drink, and you fal] asleep
very swiftly

Soon your senses feel fully alive and alert; you are
astonished to find that your body seems to be only
semi-substantial, glowing with a silvery hue; as you
:00k down, you see that you are floating above your
physical body which lies peacefully on the couch

In your present state, you possess all of your armour,
weapons and equipment, and these can all be used
normally (if you consume items, such as Potions,
Provisions and so on, these will be lost to you when
you wake from your current Dreamtime state). Like-
wise, any items you take from Dreamtime will become
teal when you awaken, and you may add them to
your Adventure Sheet. If you are killed (your STAMINA
is reduced to zero or below) during your wanderings
in Dreamtime, you will not die but you will instantly
return to your physical body and wake up; if this
happens, turn to 28a immediately. Now you drift
down, deeper down .. . Turn to 20.
79

7
Your Shield glows brilliantly and all its magical ener-

gies flow along your arm and up into your body.
Regain up to 1o lost stAMINA points, but the Magic
Shield is gone (and you lose the bonus to your Attack

Strength it gave you). Return to 295 and continue the
fight!

8

Add 2 to your Time Track for following the route to
Carnex. What you find here is surprising — and grim.
The town is walled, with guards prowling the battle-
ments keeping their crossbows levelled at any who
approach. You advance slowly, making for the single
closed gate on the east side of the town. It opens as
you approach, allowing you a glimpse of a
prosperous-looking settlement inside the walls. Two
guards draw swords as you walk towards them; they
look uncertain and one of them challenges you, de-
manding to know your name and your purpose in
coming here. Will you:

Try to bribe the guards?
Attack the guards and fight your
way in?

Turn to 358

Turn to 223

Try to bluff your way through? Turn to 32
Back off and look for an alternative
way into Carnex? Turn to 135

9
If you are ready now to fight the Night Dragon, you
known which paragraph to turn to! Otherwise, if you

10-11

have the Magic Armour, Magic Sword and Magic
Shield, and you have not met the Loremaster, you
should add the Armour Number, Shield Number
and Sword Number together and turn to that para-
graph. If you have tried and failed to obtain either
Sword or Shield, but you have the other item, turn
to 118. If you have neither Sword nor Shield, turn to
41.

Lo
There aren't many sights of interest in Ismater, as you
find out during your exhaustive search through the
place (add 1 to your Time Track). You do find two
odd-looking little shops, though: the Firewater Em-
porium, with a window stacked full of exotic bottles,
and a very dirty and run-down little shop which has a
wooden sign with flaking paint on which you can just
make out the letters, ‘EVIL’. If you want to enter the
Firewater Emporium, tum to 37. If you want to enter
the other shop, turn to 238. If you don’t wish to enter
either, will you:

Buy some supplies?

Leave Ismater?

Relax in the taverns, if you haven't
done so before?

Turn to 37%
Turn to 268

Turn to 207

11
The thief runs into a cul-de-sac and is forced to turn
and face you, drawing a sword and uttering threats.
You wouldn't worry if it was just him you had to face,
but his accomplice is a scar-faced cut-throat built like a
12-13

brick outhouse and he’s holding his sword in a way
that suggests he really knows how to use it. If you
decide to fight this pair, turn to 101. If you want to
back off, you can head for Lobster Wharf (turn to 354)
or Weaver Gate (tum to 212) but now you will have
no Gold Pieces left!

12
You grit your teeth and begin your long journey to
the lands guarded by the Frost Giants. This is an
arduous, back-breaking march indeed; add 10 to your
Time Track, unless you have a longbow or crossbow,
which will save time spent hunting to supplement
your supplies (if you have either, add only 8 to your
Time Track), Finally you pitch camp at a place where
the trail diverges.

Come morning, you can take the northerly trail to the
signposted town of Ismater, if you haven't been there
before (hum to 322), or continue onwards to the rising
peaks of the Frost Giant lands in the east (turn to 334).

13
In each Attack Round against the Chillshadow, you
will automatically lose 1 point of staAMINA because of
the extreme numbing cold the horror emanates, so
you must destroy the creature swiftly!

SKILL 8

CHILLSHADOW STAMINA 7

If you wish to break off combat at any time and flee,
you may do this, but you must roll one die and divide
the number rolled by 2 (rounding fractions up). This is

|

14-15

the number of blows the Chillshadow will strike as
you run away (each inflicting 2 points of sraMINA
damage to you). If you are still alive after this, turn to
75. If you win this fight, turn to 347.

14
Westwards along a stone-inlaid passageway lie the

tombs of dwarven ancestors and miners of old, their
bones laid to rest within the stone they toiled so long
and hard to excavate. If you want to explore the area,
turn to 363. If you want to open some of the tombs,
tum to 346. If you prefer to retrace your footsteps
and try some other part of the mine complex, turn to

15
Half-way along this peculiar passage a pair of Wraiths
simply emerge from the walls, their hateful, ghostly
forms set upon draining the very life from you. You
must fight them together.

SKILL STAMINA
First WRAITH 8 9
Second WRAITH 8 9

If you are struck at least once by a Wraith, you must
roll one die. If you roll 1-4, you lose 1 point of sxrLu!
If you win this fight, will you take one of the descend-
ing side-passages (turn to 164) or head towards the
pillars and the chamber that lie before you (turn to
392)
16-18

16
You place the seed pod at the foot of the glacier and it
sprouts into a riot of tangled creepers and vines,
allowing you to clamber up it and ascend safely to the
rock ledge! Tum to 276

17

The march away from the mountains of the Giants lies
downhill, so it’s not too wearying on your legs. Add 2
to your Time Track, and you must now eat a meal.
You think fondly of the Magic Armour you seek;
managing to evade a hungry grizzly bear last night
made you realize you could certainly do with the
protection of fine armour! You set off on a clear
momuing; turn to 217.

18
You set off into the frozen wastes of the northem
Dragon Reaches. Almost nothing grows here; there are

19

few animals around, and even the migrating birds high
in the sky are few and far between. Guided by a
burning desire to complete your quest and by an
intuition that guides you ever onward, you press on
through the snow and ice to your destiny. Add 2 to
your Time Track. You must now eat a meal, unless you
have a longbow or crossbow; if you have either, you
can preserve yout Provisions by hunting instead. If you
hunt, you do not need to eat a meal, but you must add
an extra 1 to your Time Track for time spent hunting.
After a night's restless sleep in the bitter cold of the far
north, you set out once more under leaden, snow-filled
skies. If your Nemesis score is 6 or higher, turn to 353.
If your Nemesis score is 5 or below, turn to 161.

19
At the end of this tunnel a stone door bearing
dwarven runes you cannot comprehend stands slightly
ajar. The gleam from your lantern suggests a guard-
room may lie beyond — you can just make out tables,
20

trestle benches, and what may be a wooden chest, all
covered in thick dust and cobwebs. If you want to
enter, tum to 385. Otherwise, you can backtrack and
take the passage opposite if you haven't already done
so (turn to 33) or follow the one opposite the tunnel
you entered by (turn to 47).

20

You stand in a misty chamber with six different
passageways leading away from it, Within the Dream-
time, you should always select a passageway of a
colour you have not previously explored, save for the
red and silver passages, which you can explore af any
time (keep track of the colour of the passages you
have already travelled along), Everything here seems
part-illusion, part-real, strangely substantial and Intan-
gible at the same time; but you soon get used to this.
Each of the passages is tinted with a particular hue; the
blue one also has reflective qualities which are rather
untierving for some reason you aren't sure of. Each
time you retum to this chamber, you must roll one die
and subtract 1 from the number rolled (to get a total
between o and 5); add this total to your Time Track.
When you wish to end your adventures in Dreamtime
by waking, turn to 31 (you may do this only when
you return to this chamber!). Now, which of the
passageways wil] you follow?

Tum to 56
Turn to 318
Turn to 218
Tum to 292

The blue passage?
The green passage?
The white passage?
The yellow passage?

21-22
The grey passage? Turn to 95
The black passage? Turn to 395
The silver passage? Turn to 146

21

You gaze up at the forbidding height of an unmistak-
able mountain peak; the sunlight glitters off the streak
of fool’s gold on its north face. Searching around, you
quickly find a tunnel, leading down into darkness,
which provides an obvious entrance. If you want to
set out down this tunnel, turn to 78. If you prefer to
spend time looking for another entrance, turn to 58,

22

The biscuit is indeed delicious, but it has an unfortunate
side-effect. It is spiked with a powerful drug, and
shortly after eating it you find that your mind is
dulled and you cannot seem to make your body do
what you wish it to do. Soon two black-robed men
enter; they see you and, smiling evilly, lead you away,
down into a ghastly sacrificial chamber . . . Your adven-
ture ends here.

23-24

23
Travelling along this broken trail is tricky. Test your
Skill, If you are successful, you negotiate it safely; if
you fail, you stumble several times on the treacherous,
rocky ground and twist your ankle, losing 2 points
from your STAMINA. Add 2 to your Time Track, and
you must now eat a meal. It is mid-afternoon when
you see a large, winged creature in the sky, certainly
no bird; your hope, that it may be a Dragon, is
rewarded. But what a surprise you get — this is a green
Dragon, normally a dweller in forests or jungles, not
in the cold wastes of the northern lands! The beast
lands close by and simply nods his massive head
towards you. You clamber on to his back and hold on
for dear life as he rises into the sky and flaps imperi-
ously to a distant peak, where he lands and deposits
you beside a huge cave mouth, Stepping off your
enormous mount, you see that the tunnel] opens into a
vast crater in the mountain, probably half a kilometre
wide. Within the crater, awaiting your descent down a
seemingly endless set of chiselled stone steps, is a
circle of six huge adult Dragons — black, white, red,
green, gold and silver. You are one of a mere handful
of people alive on Titan ever to have been invited to
such a conclave! Turn to 49.

24
The mirror explodes as it strikes a great magical wall
of force barring your way. The wall of force is de-
stroyed, and so is your mirror — but the Stalker-Mage
is unharmed and prepares to do battle with you! Tum
to 108.
25-27

25
A deep, disembodied voice rises from the blank surface
of the mirror. ‘Hold me by the furnace,’ it commands!
You blanch at the thought; though the flames therein
are cooling, placing the mirror close by the furnace
would expose you to intense heat. If you obey the
mirror, turn to 141. If you will not, turn to 308.

26

You stand at the foot of the central tower; a single set
of stairs leads upwards. A door stands ajar to one side
of you, and you can see a scribe at his desk scribbling
furiously on sore papers, arguing with a pair of burly,
armoured guards. You don't want to waste time with
underlings, so you race up the stairs. The next floor up
is entirely different: the stairs enter at ance into a high-
ceilinged chamber packed with benches, tables, desks,
bookcases, strange moving models of the heavens
hanging fram the ceiling, wall charts, the skeletons of
animals, and much other clutter, There is a single set of
stairs opposite you, but in the middle of the room is a
black-robed man who turns to face you as you enter.
You have disturbed his work, and his face is furious as
he shouts at you; then his eyes widen, and you realize
he knows that you are an intruder! The black-robed
man swiftly waves his hands, casting a spell. Test your
Skill. If you are successful, you strike the wizard and
disrupt his spell; turn to 45. If you fail, turn to 63.

27
This mine shaft leads to the iron mines, and rusted
metal rails run along the floor bearing an ancient iron

28-29

truck. If you want to take a chance riding the truck,
turn to g7. If you would rather walk along the shaft,
add 1 to your Time Track and turn to 259.

28

The stairs descend for some distance; as you go down,
the grinding noise is mixed with a dull booming
sound and both get louder as you progress. You turn
a sharp corner in the staircase, and a bony figure
stands before you! Clad in heavy chainmail, the
Dragon-like humanoid has a bare, yellow-boned rep-
tile’s skull and huge, iron-shod claws. It carries a great
shield with the design of a skeletal dragon’s head, and
in its other clawed hand it holds a curved sword,
dripping with poison! When you fight the Bone Stalker
Champion, each blow it strikes will inflict an extra 2
points of damage because of the venom, so you must
slay it swiftly!

BONE STALKER
CHAMPION SKILL 11

If you win, turn to 168.

STAMINA 14

29
You are hauled in front of the huge cabin of the Great
Jarl himself; add 2 to your Time Track. He’s a mon-
strous Frost Giant with scarred arms and a missing left
eye; he bristles with body hair which looks like fur,
and is heavily tattooed into the bargain. Around the
throne-like chair on which he sits is a collection of his
prized treasures and trophies: the stuffed heads of
huge animals and monsters, a pair of steel-tipped
30

lances, a giant crossbow some two metres long, and a
shield. It’s unmistakable: white-lacquered with a blue
chevron and a small black Dragon detail in the top
left-hand corner. This is what you have come for, but
how are you going to get it? Of course, you start your
speech with flattering comments about the Great Jarl’s
majesty and might, but the wary old Giant looks at
you with his one good eye and an expression on his
face which gives nothing away. You must choose one
of two strategies with him: either you can suggest
some kind of trial or challenge to obtain the shield
you want so badly (tum to 112 if you do this), or you
can try some kind of trade or bargaining approach
(turn to 260 if you try this tactic).

50
You open the door and admit the landlord of the
tavem, together with two militiamen. You tell them
the truth about what happened here, and they seem
ready to believe you. ‘Bad sorts, these,’ says one of
the militia as he turns over the body of one of the
grey-robed men with his foot. We'll have to take you
down to the jailhouse overnight, of course, but sleep-
ing there is not so bad and frankly you may be safer.’
Indeed, a night spent in jail means you are warm and

31-52

well fed — and you even win 3 Gold Pieces from your
jailers, playing dice! Gain 1 Luck point. Turn to 387.

34
You may wish to wake up, but you cannot be certain
of doing sol Roll one die. If you roll 4 or higher, you
can awaken; turn to 281. If you roll 1-3, you cannot yet
wake up; turn to zo if there are any passages you have
not yet explored, otherwise you must continue rolling
the die until you roll 4 or higher, adding 2 to your
Time Track for each roll you make. When you finally
roll 4 or higher, tum to 281. If you wish, you may
spend one Luck point to add 1 to the number rolled.

32
‘I'm a merchant from Rentarn,’ you say and the guards
see your bulging backpack. ‘Look, I’m down on my
luck and I was told that this could be a good place to
try my fortune.’ Test your Luck. If you are Lucky, the
guards believe your story, but they will demand 1
Gold Piece from you as ‘merchant's tax’ for entering. If
you are prepared to pay, turn to 333. IF you won't or
can't pay z Gold Piece, or if you are Unlucky, the
guards will not let you into the town and they make it
plain that they are very suspicious of you, Will you:

Attack the guards and fight your
way in? Tum to 223

Back off and look for an alternative
way into Carnex?

Leave Carnex and try elsewhere?

Turn to 135
Turn to 75
33-35

33

At the end of this precisely carved passage, a simple
wooden door opens into a great smithy whose flames
and forge passed into history centuries ago. All is dark
and silent here: great anvils stand like sentinels, ingots
of iron and steel are stacked in piles, tools long rusted
hang in their racks as if awaiting their long-lost users.
The smithy is huge; if you want to make a detailed
search of this unpromising place, turn to 367, Other-
wise, you can follow the tunnel opposite, if you
haven't already done so (turn to 19), or go down the
passage opposite the one you entered by (turn to 47).

34
You have behaved dishonourably, and the Red Wizard
protests as you tie him up. You quieten him with a
gag then take his treasure: 5 Gold Pieces, a viewing
lens, a set of iron keys and some food (add 5 to your
Provisions). However, you lose 1 point of HONOUR.
Tum to 308.

35
The body is that of a dark-haired young man; he is

blue with cold and is wearing a simple black robe with
a knotted black cord tied round the waist. There is a
distinctive tattoo on his left hand which shows a
coiled black serpent with red glowing eyes (make a
note of this tattoo, and of this paragraph number). If
you have an ice pick and wish to chip the body away
from the ice, turn to 328. If you do not have an ice
pick, or you don’t wish to do this, turn to 112.

36-37

36
The Ogre whacks you across the back with his club as
you flee; deduct 3 points from your sTAMINA. Now, if
you ran for the red door, turn to 123. If you ran for
the yellow door, turn to 292 unless you have already
entered a yellow passage; if you have, turn to 146
instead.

37
You ask the eager, squinting Gnome about the many
potent bottles of dubious spirits you see around the
shop, ‘Best of them all, sir, is Larssen’s Firewater. Five
Gold Pieces a bottle, sir, and you'll find no better in all
the north, that’s the truth.’ Now this is a steep price,
so you haggle with the Gnome, who reluctantly agrees
to part with this fine spirit for only 4 Gold Pieces a
bottle, as long as you buy at least two bottles (you
cannot carry more than four; if you buy only one, you
must pay 5 Gold Pieces for it). An empty corked
bottle will cost you 1 Gold Piece. After making any
purchase you fancy, you can try the shop with the
‘EVIL’ sign, if you haven't yet entered there (turn to
238). Alternatively, will you:

Buy some supplies?

Relax in the taverns, if you haven't
already done so?

Leave Ismater?

Tur to 373

Turn to 207
Tum to 268

-

t

ieee

\
ty

i et
at .

38-39

38

You fling open the door and your nose is assaulted by
the Filthy smell of half-tanned leathers that are soaking
in reeking fluids. The robed man stands with a bag of
coins in one hand and a dagger in the other, while a
nervous raven-haired young artisan in a leather apron
is holding out his hands for the money. At once, the
hard-faced sword-wielder spins around to fight you.

ASSASSIN SKILL 9 STAMINA 10

Each Attack Round, the leatherworker will throw a pot
full of acid at you while you are fighting the robed
man. Roll one die; if you roll a 5 or 6, the acid
splashes on you and you must lose 3 sTAMINA points,
if you roll a 1, the acid hits your opponent (and he
loses 3 STAMINA points)! If you roll any other number,
the acid misses you both. If you win, the leatherworker
flees before you can catch him, but he leaves the bag
with 6 Gold Pieces in it. Add 1 to your Nemesis score.
You head straight for the docks; turn to 167.

39
You head south-east towards the icy peaks of the

Frost Giant Mountains in the far distance. Add 4 to
your Time Track, and you must now eat one meal to
supplement your foraging. You find yourself at a
parting of the ways: the south-eastern trai] continues
on towards the Frost Giant peaks (if you wish to take
this path, turn to 334), while a southbound trail heads
for the town of Ismater. If you wish to go there, and
you have not done so before, turn to 322.
40-41

40
The snarling wizard is ready to strike you down, so
you must be sure to overcome him swiftly! Remember
to deduct any sTaMINA points from his total through
blows you have already inflicted.

RED WIZARD

If you reduce the Wizard’s sTAMINA to 3 or below, he
will surrender and beg for mercy, offering you informa-
tion in reward for his life — but can you possibly trust
him? If you spare his life, you may risk receiving a
sneak spell attack! If you decide to spare him, turn to
248. If you decide to slay him, you can do so auto-
matically; turn to 28%.

SKILL I1 STAMINA 15

41
The Dwarfs want to know where you are going now,
and since you don’t want to give away the nature of
your quest you mumble a few words about heading
south to some crypts, or maybe far east to explore
Giant lands, although you don’t mention the Lore-
master. A particularly ancient Dwarf sage looks you
up and down and says simply, ‘If you are seeking the
sword which was used by the human whose armour
you now wear, that does indeed lie below the Mist
Crypts. If that is where you wish to travel, Hero, we
know an underground passage network that will take
you there more swiftly and safely than the hazardous
passes of the surface world.’ If you want to take up the
offer of a dwarven guide to take you to the Mist
Crypts, turn to 115. Alternatively, you can leave Slate
Peak and travel overland southwards to the Mist

42-43

Crypts (turn to 186) or set out east by south for the
lands of the Frost Giants {turn to 64).

42
Beyond the secret door lies a small chamber with beds,
a table and chairs, a hideous mural of an elongated,
reptilian skull, and two other items which interest you:
a small wooden chest and an iron-barred cell which is
filled with thick, yellow-grey fog. On one chair is a
spare set of grey robes; you may take these if you
wish. You can feel the chill radiating from the foggy
cell where you stand; while there are keys on the table
which may fit the cell, and you think you can see a
murky form within it, you feel an aura of evil emanat-
ing from within it. So, will you:

Tum to 166
Turn to 91

Try to open the wooden chest?

Open the cell door?

Leave and open the other door across
the large room?

Decide it’s time to get out of Carnex
and leave the town?

Turn to 310

Tum to 75

43
You have entered a small guard chamber with ruffled
olankets on the bed, a wooden chest under a table, and
some curved knives hanging in a rack on the wall.
Rising from the bed is a black-robed assassin, with a
vial of blue liquid raised to his mouth; you surmise
that he is drinking a Potion, so you strike with your
weapon to stop him! Roll Attack Strengths for both of
you (he has a sxitt of 20), If you have the higher
44-45

Attack Strength, turn to 93; if he has the higher Attack
Strength, turn to 73

The Tome of the Reaches shows that the runes here are
warming signs. Specifically, the runes tell of guards
beyond the doors, and that a chieftain is buried some-
where beyond the door bearing the plaque. They also
tell you of a nasty spiked trap on the door which you
will be able to avoid now that you have been fore-
warmed! The runes -warm any who come here not to
offend the spirits of those buried on the other side of
the doors and to show due respect to the dead The
Tame also informs you that one of the runes shows
that the chieftain buried beyond ruled his clan for
thirty years (make a note of this). Now, will you open:

Turn to 210

The door with the plaque?
The door opposite the one you

entered by? Turn to go
The door opposite the one with the
plaque? Tum to 3114

45
The snarling black-robed spellcaster draws a poisoned
knife to defend himself; the venom is very toxic
and, for the first three Attack Rounds, if he strikes
you the poison will inflict an extra 3 points of
damage to your sTAMiNa. After three Attack
Rounds, the venom will have dripped from the

blade.

BLACK WIZARD SKILL 9 STAMINA 11

46-47

If you win, you're still in danger. The door atop the
stairs ahead of you opens and a black-robed figure
peers round the door towards you; then he slams the
door shut again. You must move swiftly now. If you
want to flee and leave the town, turn to 95, If you
want to ascend the stairs and get at the man you've
just seen, you should do so swiftly; if you want to
perform any actions first (drinking a Potion, using
Poison Antidote, etc.) you must make a list of how
many actions you're going to take. If you make three
or fewer, turn to 181, If you make four or more, turn
to 126.

46
If you have a rope, you can tie one end round the
top of the well and clamber down into the mist safely,
but you must leave the rope behind you (cross it off
your Possessions). If you jump, Test your Skill, adding
2 to the number rolled, If you are successful, you land
safely; but if you fail, you fall heavily, hitting the
stone floor of the chamber belaw. Lose = points. from
your STAMINA. Turn to 201.

47
Deeper into the heart of the mountain, on your right
you find a spiral staircase leading down, and further
along there is a side-passage, also on your right,
Directly ahead, stone steps lead downwards. Will you:

Descend the spiral staircase? Turn to 206
Follow the side-passage? Turn to 342
Go down the steps ahead? Turn to 296
48-49

48

The door to the dark chamber of the Night Dragon
lies ahead of you. Study your Adventure Sheet carefully.
Make sure that you have all your bonuses (and penal-
ties!) to SKILL, STAMINA, LucK and Attack Strength
(for your magical protections) fully added up. Consider
which items you may wish to use in the terrible battle
to come, and what they can do for you (if you know
this). Not all may be included as options in the
following paragraphs, although you may use them.
During this final compat, further magic may still affect
Attack Strengths, sxite and the like, so be sure to
keep track of all the modifiers and changes which
apply! Make a note of any changes you should make
to the Skit, STAMINA and magical spell use of the
Night Dragon because of your achievements in the
quest so far. Finally, you must divide your Time Track
score by to {rounding fractions up), and subtract
6 from that number; add the resulting number to
the sTAMINA score of the Night Dragon when you
encounter it — the longer you have taken to get here,
the tougher this brute will be!

Now, if you have the Tome of the Reaches you will be
able to read the runes on the door before you. Turn to
the paragraph with the same number as the first page
of the book which tells you about Dragon Runes. If
you do not have this book, turn to 388.

The Dragons are silent as you clamber down the steps
and stand before them with your head bowed. The

49

Gold Dragon speaks, his voice booming in this vast
auditorium. ‘It is not often that Dragon Elders meet in
this way, human We only meet when a great danger
threatens us all. We have to tum to a human for help
against the waking menace we all face. You have been
chosen.’ The Gold Dragon pushes his huge, three-
metre head in your direction; his eyes are red and
theumy with age, but they shine with expectation and
vigour despite his untold years.

The Silver Dragon speaks next. ‘Our messenger told
you of the Night Dragon?’ You nod slowly. “Then all
you need to know is the reason we have asked you
to come before us, The Ancient was overcome before
by human heroes. They had powerful magic with
which to defeat him. We know where that magic
may be found. There is a great sword, hidden in the
desolate Mist Crypts south-west of here. The en-
irance to them lies below a tall mountain with a
streak of fool’s gold near its peak. To the north-west
lies magic armour, crafted by the greatest dwarven
artisans of their age and lost when their clan dis-
appeared from Titan. Slate Peak was their old fortress
home, Far to the east and south can be found a
magic shield, lost among the Jublez — the Frost
Giants, a much tougher race than most of their kind.
All these artefacts have great power against the An-
cient. An exceptional hero armed and protected with
these could vanquish him, should he be encountered
before his sleep is wholly ended. You may even
prevail without all these things — though without at
least two you would find it impossible to overcome
5O-52

the Night Dragon.’ There is one obvious question left:
where is the Ancient? Turn to 309.

50
You cannot now obtain the Magic Shield you sought.
If you have also tried to obtain the Magic Sword and
tailed, your quest is done: you have failed and your
adventure ends here. If you possess the Sword and
Armour, multiply the Armour Number by 4, add the
Sword Number, and subtract 10 to get a total, then
turn to the paragraph with that number (add 2 to your
Time Track before you do!). If you still seek either
Armour or Sword, turn to 219.

51
As the great reptile falls beneath the hail of your sword
blows, there is a subtle change in the air, as if some
tension or pressure had been released. Making your way
back to the dungeon with the aid of the pit cage, to your
disappointment you find that the Dwarfs are still stony
in form and substance, and they are somewhat confused,
They know you have slain the monster, yet their curse is
not fully lifted. They feel within their bodies that they
have more life within them, they are not cursed with the
somnolence of many centuries, yet they must find some
other help in returning them to fleshly form. Nevertheless
they are grateful to you, and a pair of artisans make off
with your armour to repair it in the smithy. Turn to 152.

52
Looking carefully all around and with your heart
racing, you turn up at the back yard of the tavern as

52

the moon is a sliver in the sky, Is this an ambush?
Your thoughts are interrupted as a grey-robed man
melts out of the shadows to your left and waves you
towards a dark back alley. You want to ask many
questions, but he hushes you. I may not have much
time. I didn’t know what the others were doing. They
claimed to be men of learning, you see. The Cult
leaders live in the Towers of the Sages, and at first
they advised the town elders, and advised them well.
Several of us were only too ready to join, to help
them teach people to read and write, and learn the
rudiments of a little magic ... I'm sorry, I'm getting,
ahead of myself, I'm from Carex. You are a marked
man — you may not know it, but the shadow of the
Night Dragon and its appalling servants are upon you
now. You must be an enemy of the Cult, and for that
reason you may be a friend, If you want to learn more
of the Night Dragon you must head for Camex. But at
all costs beware the ...’ Suddenly a wide-headed
arow is protruding from the back of his neck at a
grotesque angle. You turn and are already running
when his body hits the ground; you can’t hope to
fight enemies you can’t see in the pitch darkness, You
will have to leave Ismater now and sleep rough on the
edge of town, hoping that whoever slew your inform.
ant won't find you. Add 1 to your Nemesis score and
turn to 268,

53

53
The twisting passage slopes gently up and around

from the mountain’s core closer to the rock face and
then back inwards again, Add 1 to your Time Track.
Finally the lengthy passage opens into a cavernous
chamber made from the same fibrous and rubbery
material you‘ve grown used to in this bewildering
mountain core. All therein is black, edged with metallic
blues, greys and silvery hues, and directly opposite
you is a single exit. Standing before it is a horror
which you know to be the Night Dragon’s final
servant and guardian. It has its arms crossed and it
appears quite unconcerned at your approach. It stands
three metres tall, with a human-shaped torso; but its
great Dragon-like head seems almost too heavy for its
squat neck to support. Its elongated limbs are heavily
muscled and end in great clawed hands almost half a
metre across. Its tattered black-and-silver robes bear
the emblems of coiled serpents and spider's webs with
skulls at the centre, and as it moves slightly you
are revolted to see chunks of rotting flesh fall from its

body.

‘Come to me, little one,’ it breathes in a ghastly
rasping voice, ‘I fear you not!’ Will you:

Rush at the monster? Tum to 156
Use a longbow or crossbow to fire
at the creature? Tum to 399

Throw a Magic Mirror at the
creature (if you have one)? Turn to 24
54-55

54
You have failed in your bid to gain the Magic Sword
which you came seeking, but all may not be lost.
Eventually you find a way out of the cavern and craw]
along a narrow sinkhole to the surface. Add 2 to your
Time Track, and you must now eat a meal. If you do
not possess both the Magic Armour and the Magic
Shield you sought, and you wish to set out to find one
or other item, tum to 359. If you have both these
items, you know the Armour Number and the Shield
Number. Multiply the Armour Number by 4 and add
that to the Shield Number, then turn to the paragraph
with the sarne number as that total. If you have also
tried and failed to obtain the Magic Shield you sought,
you cannot hope to prevail on your quest and your
adventure ends here.

ao
You start from sleep just after midnight when one of

the cloaked men stumbles as he heads towards you.
You see the knife in his hand gleaming in the pale
moonlight, and you grab your sword to defend your-

55

self. Two of the men are awake and ready to fight
with their odd, curved blades. You must fight them
together: each Attack Round, determine Attack
Strengths for all three of you. Only the combatant
with the highest Attack Strength will inflict a damaging
blow that Attack Round. After four Attack Rounds,
the third man will have woken and be ready to join
the fray as well!

SKILL STAMINA
First PILGRIM 8 7
second PILGRIM 8 9
third PILGRIM 8 8

If you win, you search the bodies, You can take 5
Gold Pieces and enough Provisions for four meals
trom them, but you also find a strange mark tattooed
on the forearm of each man. The symbol shows a
Hwenty-stranded spider’s-web pattern with a black rep-
tilian skull at its centre (make a note of this paragraph
as the one where you observed this design). Add 1 to
your Nemesis score, then you resume your disturbed
slumber; turn to 275.

56-58

56

The blue passage pulsates with light as you glide
along it; you feel as if you are walking on air — and
suddenly a door appears in the passageway before
you. You open it and find yourself staring into a great
maze of mirrors. A strong, tall figure steps out before
you: it is a reflection of yourself. The warrior bears
down upon you with weapon drawn! You must fight
yourself! Your opponent has the same sxILL and
STAMINA scores as you do, but you have some advan-
tages. Your mirror-image enemy has no magical iterns,
and he has no tuck points. Finally, you can distract
your alter-ego during one Attack Round of the combat
you face, and during that Attack Round you can
perform one action — a free hit on your duplicate
(deduct 2 points from his stamina), drink a Potion,
etc. If you win this combat, tum to 104 immediately.

57
With an effort you push open a manhole cover to find

yourself in a large, semicircular storeroom; you guess
that you must have emerged inside a tower, The store
has nothing of use to you — just wooden planks,
empty sacks, simple tools and the like. A swift search
reveals a secret door as the only exit from this room,
so you open it to see what lies beyond. Tum to 26.

58
Searching the area round the mountain is time-con-
suming. Add 1 to your Time Track. If your Nemesis
score is 5 or higher, tum to 137; if it is 4 or below,
tum to 169

59-60

39
Two spectral figures emerge from the walls and howl

at your approach! They are afraid of your magical
light, but they also hate you and wish to slay you
Test your Luck, adding 1 to the dice roll for every
point that your Nemesis score is over 7 {if it is 7 or
below, you need not modify the total rolled on the
dice). If you are Lucky, tun to 116. If you are Unlucky,
turn to 15.

60
Beyond the door lies a hall which almost takes your
breath away, such is its sheer size and the intricacy of
its decoration. It must measure a hundred metres on
each side, with a ceiling fifteen metres high Standing
within the hall are rank upon rank of stone Dwarfs,
all staring at the far end of the hall, where three stone
Dwarf chieftains stand on a raised dais. On the walls
hang flags and pennants, their colours long dulled by
age, and racks of battleaxes, A long mural etched in
stone runs along the walls, showing Dwarfs at war
overcoming their hated enemies, Giants and Orcs and
Goblins. You can almost hear echoes of the war cries
which must have resounded from these mighty walls.
And, as you look, the Dwarfs begin to move! Slowly,
painfully slowly, and with a stiffness born of centuries
of slumber, they tum and shuffle around to look at
you. One of the chieftains ponderously stretches out
an arm, and a voice so deep it seems to come from the
core of the world itself booms, “The hour has come
The Hero has come to lift our curse!’ A ragged cheer
rises from the hundreds of stone Dwarfs, who begin to
61-62

throng round you, It seems that your quest must
have many goals before you reach journey’s end! Turn
to 159.

61

You hide yourself at some distance from the main
track into the town, and wait. Add 2 to your Time
Track. Eventually a grey-robed, tall, lean figure strides
away from Carnex along the trail. You can’t use your
weapon to best effect — his robes will be useless as a
disguise if you've .chopped them to shreds with a
keen-edged sword. Because you have to pull your
punches, you must subtract z from your Attack
Strength during this fight!

GREY ASSASSIN

If you win, you take the man’s robes and pull them on
over your armour, You head for the main gates with
the cowl of the robe pulled firmly down over your
face, and the guards let you past; turn to 333.

SKILL QO STAMINA 10

62
You spend some fruitless minutes in a warehouse
packed with crates, boxes and sacks; there are several

63-64

doors and exits, and your man has disappeared. Worse
still, when you get back to the Endimion the Dark EIf is
dead. The ship’s captain tells you that he spoke only a
few words before he died: ‘Go north-north-west along
the Stormdrake Pass.’ Now, will you:

Tum to 236

Buy some extra equipment or food?
Sell some furs, if you have some to

sell? Turn to 68
Leave Rentam for Stormdrake Pass?

Turn to 178

Trying to rush the wizard, your legs are ensnared by
a magical whirling bola which wraps round them and
brings you crashing to the ground! Deduct 2 points
irom your STAMINA. While you are getting up and
readying yourself to fight, the wizard casts another
spell to strengthen himself! Turn to 45 to fight him,
but you must add 1 to his skit. and 4 to his
STAMINA,

64
You are almost following your own footsteps, heading
65

back the way you came; add 4 to your Time Track,
and you must now eat a meal. You are back at the fork
in the trail once more, so you have a choice of where
to go. You can head south to Carnex if you have not
been there before (turn to 8). Alternatively, you can
continue south-east; add 2 to your Time Track and
turn to 39.

65
You can buy almost anything from the unscrupulous
merchants of Port Blacksand, but your most likely
purchases may well be:

Steel mirror 3 Gold Pieces
Rope 1 Gold Piece
Longbow and arrows 4 Gold Pieces
Glass bottle 1 Gold Piece

Spiked boots 4 Gold Pieces
Ice pick 3 Gold Pieces
Flask of liqueur 3 Gold Pieces
Keg of beer _ 3 Gold Pieces

4 Gold Pieces
4 Gold Pieces
& Gold Pieces
5 Gold Pieces

Viewing lens

Carved ivory polar bear
Potion of STAMINA
Potion of Luck

65

The spiked boots will be useful in walking on icy,
slippery ground, and the liqueur is invigorating and
strengthening (regain 4 lost sTAMINA points when
you empty the flask). The viewing lens helps you to
see distant locations more clearly when you look
through it, and it also acts as a magnifying glass. The
tvory polar bear just catches your eye; you don’t
know whether it may be useful or not. The Potion of
STAMINA, when drunk, allows you to regain lost
STAMINA points equal to half your Initial score (round
fractions up). The Potion of tuck, if drunk, allows you
to restore lost LucK points up to half your Initial score
round fractions down). Potions and liqueur can be
drunk at any time, except during combat. When you
have decided what to buy, amend your Adventure
Sheet accordingly; you must keep a minimum of 2
Gold Pieces for the journeys to come! Now you must
Test your Luck, If you are Lucky, you get safely to
Lobster Gate if you seek a ship (turn to 354) or to
Weaver Gate if you're heading for Rentam by road
‘hun to 212). If you are Unlucky, turn to 77.

66-67

66

You find a narrow, rocky crevice where the stream
rushes to the surface, and you judge that there is just
enough air above the water for you to push yourself
along on your back. Mercifully, you have not gone
many metres before the passage widens and you can
crawl on all fours. You head onwards and you soon
locate the outflow of the town sewers by the evil-
smelling current which flows into the stream. You
splash along the sewer aqueduct and are about to
ative at a junction of sewers when you spot a sinuous
wave heading through the water towards you, You
draw your weapon just as the monster breaks the
surface. It is a many-legged, slimy, yellow-green worm;
in its skeletal reptilian head, dripping filth and ordure,
its jaws open wide to savage you with its razor-sharp,
knife-long teeth!

NECROWORM SKILL Q STAMINA 14

if the Necroworm bites you even once, you have
acquired a disease from its filthy bite but this disease
will take some while to incubate If you win, when
you leave Carnex you will find that your Initial
STAMINA score is reduced by 2 points until you can
tind a cure! However, you find 3 Gold Pieces on a
nalf-eaten body. Now you head on; turn to 195

67
You trudge back up the stairs; add 1 to your Time Track.
Back at the crossroads, you can open the door opposite
you, if you haven’t done so before (turn to 86), or make
tor the door opposite the entrance passage (turn to 133).
68~70

68
You're not really experienced at haggling over the
selling price of furs, but you pocket 5 Gold Pieces for
the three beaver skins you were given — and you can
always use some extra money! Now, will you:

Buy some extra equipment or food? Turn to 236
Make for the Rudderless Galley

tavern, if you haven't already been

there? Tur to 286
Leave Rentarn, if you've stayed the

night here? Turn to 178
69
You race across the snow to attack the evil enslavers
of the hapless chained people. You must fight the
grey-robed men separately as two pairs of opponents,
and they will not be easy to defeat since they draw
vicious, serrated daggers to strike you!

SKILL STAMINA
First ACOLYTE PAIR 9 10
Second ACOLYTE PAIR 9 11

If you win, you free the chained men and women.
They seem dazed, barely in command of their senses,
but you command them to make their way back south,
and they obey your instructions. You have saved
many souls from certain death in the lair of the Night
Dragon; gain 1 HONOUR point! Turn to 258.

7O
IF you wish to, you can deflect the Dragon’s breath

71

using your Magic Shield, and you will suffer no
damage. However, if you do this now, the Shield will
not be able to block a breath attack from the real Night
Dragon when you meet it, and you must make a note
of this! If you choose not to use the Shield to block
the breath, you must lose 6 stTAMINA points. Turn to
211.

71
You stagger backwards as your final blow slays the
gigantic opponent you have struggled so long and
hard to overcome! You can hardly believe it. You are
dazed, wounded and bleeding and faint with shock,
and adrenalin is pouring through your body. You sit
down wearily with your head in your hands, shaking
uncontrollably. And then you see, with utter horror,
what is happening now. The slimy, acidic cocoon
round the Dragon’s corpse is slithering over the
ground and wrapping itself round the Night Dragon’s
skull-head, The red glow in the eye-sockets, though
dim, is beginning to increase in strength. The ghastly
thing ts somehow resurrecting itself! This is too terrible
to be true — but it is happening. Now you have a
ctucial choice to make. You can flee the mountain; if
72

you do this, turn to 335. Otherwise, you make what
preparations you can and prepare to deal with what-
ever animates itself to fight you again; turn to 98.

72

The Chieftain lays his sword first upon your left
shoulder, then on your right, and you feel a surge of
strength flow from the magical sword into your body.
Your muscles stiffen then relax. The effect of the
magic he has granted you is this: for one, and only
one, Attack Round in any combat within the Mist
Crypts, you can automatically have the higher Attack
Strength and your blow will inflict a massive 6 points
of damage to the stAmINa of your opponent! You may
choose when to use this awesome power, but the
magic will be lost outside the Mist Crypts, so use it
wisely! You rise before the Chieftain, and in a moment
of strange emotion you bow to each other. Gain 1
HONOUR point. Now you return to the antechamber
beyond the tomb rooms; turn to 332.

73-74

The assassin drains his Potion before you can strike —
and becomes invisible! It will now be very difficult for
you to sense where he is. You retreat to the doorway,
preventing him from escaping and raising the alarm,
but he will fight you. Turn to 93, and you must sub-
tract 3 from your Attack Strength when fighting him!

74
With a Potion of Invisibility you could sneak into the

camp here, past the guards, and have some chance of
entering the Great Jarl’s cabin and stealing the shield
The camp is noisy, too; drunken Giants are carousing
the night away, wolves howl, and, while you won't be
silent, you can hope that the cacophony will help your
nocturnal infiltration. Add 2 to your Time Track for
the wait. However, this is sneaky; it’s theft, and not
very honourable. You will lose 2 point of Honour if
you steal the shield. If you haven't entered the camp
and wish to do this instead of making a sneak theft,
you can still do so by turning to 29.
75

Otherwise, you make yourself invisible as dusk falls
and head for the edge of the camp. You must Test your
Luck to see if you pass the guards safely: if you have
some smoke powder and can create a decoy, you can
subtract 3 from the number rolled on the dice and. if
you are Lucky, you regain 1 point of tuck! If you are
Lucky, turn to 250. If you are Unlucky, turn to 100.

After your exploits in the town of Carex, it will not
be safe for you to return! Too many people will have
seen you, and the guards will be ready for you should
you come back, Make a note that you cannot now
return to Camex even if you are offered the chance to
do so in later paragraphs. Now, do you have the Tome
of the Reaches? If you do, you will have noted three
page numbers. Add these numbers together to get a
three-figure number. Multiply the last two digits by
the first one, and tum to that paragraph (for example,
it the number was 515 you would tum to paragraph
75). Otherwise, turn to 370,

76-77

76
With the Red Wizard rendered harmless, you search
his laboratory. You decide not to interfere with the
extraordinary apparatus. Searching through the
Wizard's desk and table, however. you find some
useful items. He has some preserved food you can take
(add $ to your Provisions), a viewing lens which you
may take if you do not possess one, 7 Gold Pieces and
a set of iron keys. Pocketing these items, you look for
somewhere else to explore; turn to 308,

77

Walking through the throng of lowlife in Harbour
Street, not far from the infamous Black Lobster inn
itself, you fall prey to one of the notorious pickpockets
of Blacksand. You feel your bag of coins grabbed from
your belt and spin around just in time to see a
scrawny, rat-faced young man darting away down a
side-alley. If you want to pursue the thief turn to a1
if you don't wish to do so, you can head for Lobster
Wharf (tum to 354) or Weaver Gate (turn to 212), but
now you will have no Gold Pieces left Alternatively,
you could cry "Thief! Stop himf and hope that one of
Lord Azzur’s militiamen will help you out (turn to
279)

78

78

The dark tunnel twists and tums and leads to a long
descending flight of carved stone steps. Strange and
unfamiliar mmes are etched into the walls alongside
the stairs, and the air is chilly here. Peering into the
distance, at least as far as your lantern sheds light, you
finally see a stone landing with a door before you in
the distance. You set off in that direction — and get a
tremendous surprise! A pair of Skeletons seem almost
to melt out of the stone on either side of the passage
as you advance! Their bones surface from the stone as
if breaking a wave of water and the yellowed bones of
these undead monsters seern to be impregnated with
bone themselves. You guess, rightly, that they may be
much tougher than ordinary skeletons, and you
back into a comer so that you can fight them one at
a time.

SKILL STAMINA
First STONEMELDER 8 Jo
Second STONEMELDER 8 8

If you win, your troubles may not yet be over! The
second Stonemelder doesn’t fall to pieces at your final
blow; its bones simply reel back across the room and
sink into the stone of the wall, and as you look on in
horror they begin to rise again! Test your Skill. If you
are successful, you get to the far door, open it, then
close it behind you to escape from the Stonemelder, so
turn to 332. If you fail the test, you will have to fight
the second Stonemelder a second time before you can
escape
79-80

79
It seems that few of the ordinary villagers are allowed

to leave the village. You have a long wait; add 2 to
your Time Track and you must now eat a meal.
Eventually a villager with a small cart and a donkey
approaches, morosely stumbling along the trail. You
near him, keeping your weapon sheathed to avoid
frightening him, and greet him politely; but it’s clear
he’s absolutely petrified with fear. ‘Look, I just want to
find out about any secret way to get into Carnex,’ you
plead, If your Nemesis score is 4 or higher, turn to 96.
If your Nemesis score is 3 or lower, tum to 390

80
You push open the door to an armoury chamber and
find a single item hanging on the bare stone wall in an
otherwise featureless room. It is a shining suit of steel-
linked chainmail armour! You can scarcely believe your
good fortune at finding so swiftly what you came to
seek — but as you take it from the peg on which it
hangs, you see that it has twelve rents in it. ]t is simply
unusable as it is, and somehow you're going to have to

81

get it repaired. You can only hope that the answer lies
somewhere in this dungeon, where you found it. Make
a note of the number of rents (call it the Armour
Number). Now, you can open the door opposite you,
if you haven't already done so (turn to 120), or go
back along the passage and up the steps (tum to 2332).

81

The Wizard-Wraith dissolves into wisps of acrid smoke
as you strike the final blow. His staff remains, but it is
an evil thing and you do not wish even to touch it
However, exploring the back of the rock ledge reveals 6
Gold Pieces — and a beautiful sword which positively
crackles with magical energy. This is what you came for
and, as you take it, its balance feels perfect in your
hands. Across the hilt and pommel is set a broad band of
tiny moonstones; 80 in all (make a note of the number of
gems; call it the Sword Number). The Magic Sword adds
1 to your Attack Strength in all combats, but when you
fight a Stalker or the Night Dragon itself, this sword will
add a full 3 points to your Attack Strength! You hold the
$2-83

sword aloft in triumph and, as you do so, you notice a
very thin line in the rock face at the back of the ledge.
Your fingers soon find a secret door, flush with the rock
face, and a narrow, ascending passage beyond, In less
than an hour, although it seems much longer, you are
out of the Mist Crypts and staring at the setting sun.

If you're ready to face the Night Dragon. you know
which paragraph to tum to! If you now have the
Magic Armour, Magic Shield and Magic Sword but
you have not yet met the Loremaster, add the Armour
Number, Shield Number and Sword Number together
and turn to the paragraph with the same number, If
you have the Sword and the Armour, and you have
tried and failed to get the Shield, multiply the Armour
Number. by 4, add the Sword Number, and subtract 10
to get a total; turn to the paragraph with that number
If you still seek either Armour or Shield, turn to 359.

82

Unfortunately, the acid the Stalker-Mage was prepar-
ing, was made for the specific purpose of strengthening
and toughening its master! As a-result you must add =
STAMINA point to the Night Dragon's total when you
encounter it, You are hit by a great cloud of fiery breath
which makes you scream in agony; deduct 6 points
from your STAMINA. If you are still alive, turn to 4.

83
You take 3 Gold Pieces from the bodies of the cloaked
men and are just about to take a piece of paper from
the inside pocket of one of them when the door is

84-86

broken down and the landlord, accompanied by two
militiamen, rushes in. You've just been discovered in a
room with four dead bodies, apparently looting one of
them! If you decide to give yourself up, tum to 143. Jf
you prefer to jump out of the window, turn to 109

84
You have got a few metres up the vine when the Ogre
swats you to the ground with a blow of his enormous
fist. You lose 4 sTAMINA points because of the heaviness
of the blow; you fall and must now fight, Turn to 102,

85
Yet more Jeg-wearying marching time is spent travel-
ling into the far high peaks of the north-western
Dragon Reaches; add 4 to your Time Track, and you
must now eat another meal. If your Nemesis score is 4
or higher, tum to 330. If it is 3 or below, turn to 5

86
You fling open the door and startle two men, one in
grey robes, one in black, seated at a table, poring over
some papers. Aided by surprise, you lash out at the
grey-robed man who is near you and wound him; he
draws a heavy knife to fend off further attacks. The
black-robed man is trying to get to a bell-pull rope at
the other side of the room; clearly he is going to raise
the alarm! You have a choice of strategy here. You can
continue attacking the grey acolyte, in which case the
black-robed assassin will not fight until you have
killed the grey acolyte. If you prefer to attack the
assassin, then you must fight your two enemies
87

together, but this will make it much harder for the
assassin to raise the alarm. Choose your strategy, then
fight your opponents.

SKILL STAMINA
GREY ACOLYTE fs) 8
BLACK ASSASSIN 9 11

If you win, how many Attack Rounds did you need to
slay the black assassin? If you took more than seven
Attack Rounds, add.2 to your Nemesis score. If you
needed seven or fewer you need not do this. You'd
like to search here, and examine the papers, but dare
you risk the time? Will you:

Leave and open the door in the

right-hand passage? Turn to 133
Leave and descend the winding stairs,

if you haven't done so before? Turn to 340
Search this room? Turn to 396

87
You advance with trepidation through the archway, to
find yourself in a tomb chamber even bigger than the
first. Again there are ranks of tombs here, but your
attention is drawn to the great stone throne at the far
end of the room — and to the thing seated upon it. Of

88

the man’s body only bones remain; but the great two-
handed glittering sword in his bony hands shines in
the light of your lantern and the jewelled neckchain
round his throat also gleams and shines. Despite your
fear you are curious and you move slowly towards the
enthroned creature. As you advance, a red glow sud-
denly sparks from the sunken, empty eye-sockets and
the undead thing rises from its throne! You may be
able to placate it. If you know how many years the
Chieftain muled his clan, multiply that number by five
and turn to that paragraph, If you don’t, and your
Nemesis score is 4 or higher, turn to 202. If you don’t
know how long he ruled, and your Nemesis score is 3
or lower, turn to 254. If you want to rush and attack
the Chieftain anyway, turn to 215.

88
The pyramidal shape glows with yellow light, and fine
tentacles rise in alarm on its surface. As one, the
shadowy forms flit towards you then fuse into a great
pool of darkness. If you do not have a Magic Sword,
you cannot fight the Chillshadow Horde and you will
be slain; your adventure ends here. If you do have a
Magic Sword, you can fight, but the odds are stacked
against you and you cannot retreat now. In each
Attack Round, you automatically lose 1 sTAMINA

point due to the intense cold radiating from the
Chillshadow Horde!

CHILLSHADOW HORDE | skILLg_ ss sTAMINA 13

If you win, the pyramidal shape is pulsing with brilliant
light, its size swelling up! You now have a choice: you
89

can flee and follow the twisting passageway below
(turn to 53), take one preparatory action such as eating a
meal or drinking a Potion (if you do this, tum to 18g), or
attack the strange pyramid immediately (turn to 117).

89
The Loremaster’s cat addresses you. ‘You could use
some help looking for the magic you seek. I can take
you where you want to go now.’ If you have two of
the special magical treasures you have been seeking
and you feel that you can set off for the Night
Dragons lair straight away, you may wish to go there
now; if you do, turn to 233. If you decide to make for
a magical treasure which you still seek — sword,
armour or shield — the Loremaster gives you an amulet
which you can use just once, and it will transport you
to a place two days’ march south of the Night Dragon’s
mountain lair (make a note that you can do this by
turning to paragraph 289; the amulet can be activated
at any time, except during a combat). So will you now

go

ask the cat to use its teleportation power to take you to:

The Sword? Turn to 24
The Armour? Turn to 5
The Shield? Tum to 319

Te)
You ask the Dwarf what he knows about the Dragon
Reaches, and he looks at you with a glint in his eye.
‘Dangerous lands. The last civilized town there is
Ismater, north-east of Renta. I do have some interest
in an old story about the Dragon Reaches, 1 must
admit. There are legends of a lost dwarf clan below
Slate Peak, a great grey mountain far to the north-
west. Too far for me to go, and it’s probably only
another tall tale. But. many years ago, | picked up a
coin said to be from them. He puffs at his pipe as he
reaches into a pocket and pulls out a very old, well
rubbed brass coin. ‘Give it yer for a couple of gold.
Might be some use to yer, if you're heading that way.’

IF you want to buy the dwarven coin, you must give
the Dwarf 2 Gold Pieces for it (if you buy it, add it to
your Adventure Sheet and record the number of this
paragraph next to it). You can now turn in for the
night (turn to 275), or ask about the grey-cloaked men
(turn to 337) or the area generally (turn to 157), if you
haven't already raised the subject.

91-92

91
Opening the cell door is a mistake; you felt the evil
within, and now the obscured figure within the cell
leaps out at you and fog swirls round you, numbing
and chill. Lose 2 sTAMINA points, and you must
subtract 1 from your Attack Strength in your fight
with the bizarre enemy which has emerged from the
fog! White-scaled and reptilian, the horror has a mu-
tated form, with grossly foreshortened hind limbs and
elongated front limbs ending in shovel-like claws, and
its body is squat and powerful.

MUTATED
WHITE STALKER SKILL & STAMINA 13

If you win, will you:

Try to open the chest here, if you

haven't yet attempted this? Turn to 166
Leave here and open the door
opposite you? Turn to 310
Backtrack and leave the town of
Camex? Turn to 75
g2

Nevill looks like the kind of fellow who might know
almost anything, though you can’t afford to give
anything away about your quest. Will you ask him
about:

Grey- or black-robed men? Turn to 160
Frost Giants to the east? Turn to 129
The Dragon Conclave? Turn to 198
937-94

935
The black-robed assassin is dextrous and swift but,

fortunately for you, he has not had time to poison his
weapon. Nevertheless, he is a quick-witted and danger-

ous enemy!
BLACK ASSASSIN SKILL 10

If you win, you find nothing of value in this room
save for a little food (add 1 to your Provisions): you
can now either head for the archway (turn to a6y} or
retreat to the main passage outside and choose some-
where else to explore (turn to 308),

STAMINA 13

94
‘Now we know that the messenger aboard ship is
going to be making moves eastwards. He's going to
try and find out what the Frost Giants are up to, and
we have to prevent that. We also need to take steps
to deal with that idiot they recruited in Blacksand, The
High Priest already has Stalkers out in the wasteland,
and we have an assassin at the docks. Here’s your
money, spy. You have served us well.’ Now, do you

95

want to head straight down to the docks (tum to 167)
or burst into the room and confront the men inside
(tun to 38)?

95

The grey passage is oppressive and gloomy. A dank.
cold, stone passage leads down and down, and there
seems no end in sight; but finally you come to a very
solid wooden door with a whole array of locks. You
can pick or force these, but this is going to take you a
long time; add 2 to your Time Track (just 1 if you
have an ice pick to help you). Forcing the door, you
walk into a scene from a nightmare. Across the stark
bloodstained chamber a ghastly parody of a thing sits
ona stone throne, clutching a jewelled amulet in one
skeletal hand: beneath its rotting robes the monstrosity
has @ vaguely human shape. but its skull is that of a
reptile, and what little remains of its eyes glows with
fiendish intensity. As it rises, flesh drops from its
body, and it waves its daws in an arc directing a
shadowy form to attack you. You must fight the
Chillshadow here before you can get to grips with the
holder of the amulet, and this is a dangerous enemy;
during every Attack Round which you fight, you
automatically lose 1 sTAMINA point due to the extreme
numbing cold this horror radiates, If you do not have
a Magic Sword, turn to 213.

CHILLSHADOW SKILL 8 STAMINA 7
If you win, you now see red and silver doors in this
room; if you want to run to one or the other and try
96-98

to flee for your life, turn to 377. If you wish to fight
the advancing monster that remains here, turn to 185.

96

The frightened man looks at you closely. ‘] was afraid
you might be one of the High Priest's spies, but I
don’t think you are,’ he whines in a scared voice.
‘There's only one way | knows of. Down by the
stream, east of the town, there’s an entrance to the
underground waters; the sewers of the town run into
it. It would be very difficult, but you might be able to
crawl along the stream, into the sewers, and get into
Camex that way.’ He looks around, fearful that some-
one may be watching him. ‘I must go. If I am late
retuming, my family will be killed. The grey men, they
have them as hostages, you know. If you make for the
taverns of the town, you'll be watched. Stay away
from the graveyards on the north-east side of town;
they'll check you there, like they will if you head for
the northern towers where the High Priest and his
men are. Now | must leave.’ He plods off along the
path. You decide to make for the stream and the
underground passage; turn to 66.

97
Test your Skill. If you are successful, you ride the truck

round the circuit of the old iron mines in safety. If you
fail, you crash going around a tight bend and you
must lose 2 sTAMINA points. Tum to 259.

98
You may perform four actions before the monster is

99

able to act. You cannot get at it to strike with a hand
weapon; its thick cocoon prevents this. You may drink
any Potion you have, use a charge from a Magic
Mirror (if you have one), eat some food (you cannot
eat more than two meals as part of your four actions)
or drink liqueur (if you have any). Two actions are of
particular note. If you have a Potion of Invisibility and
wish to drink this, turn to a53. If you have a longbow
or crossbow and wish to shoot at the skull on the
ground, tum to 230. If neither of these is among your
four actions, turn to 306.

Pushing open the door here takes a real effort, since it
is jammed and swollen within its frame, but it finally
gives way with a loud creak. In front of you a set of
steps descends to a round chamber with what looks
like a well in its centre; and to your right a passageway
heads into the distance then turns directly ahead of
you. If you want to investigate the passage, turn to
138. If you want to examine the round chamber, turn
to 376.

100-101

100
You suffer the misfortune of being spotted by a guard,
who sees your footprints leading out across a patch of
snow right at the very edge of the camp — he can’t see
you, but he knows approximately where you are and
he attacks! You must slay him quickly before he raises
the general alarm. Fortunately, because you are invis-
ible, he cannot aim his club at you very accurately and
you may subtract 3 from his Attack Strength

FROST GIANT

If you win, you just have to hope that the noise of
your battle went unnoticed among the other sounds of
the camp at night. Tum to 250

SKILL 10 STAMINA 15

101
You must fight the thief and his thug associate
together.

SKILL STAMINA
THIEF 7 7
THUG 8 9

If you want to break off combat and run away at any
time, you may do so — leaving all your gold in the
hands of the robbers. Turn to 354 if you want to go
to Lobster Wharf or to 242 if you want to head for
Weaver Gate, If you win, you regain your stolen
money, and the thief has an extra 4 Gold Pieces in a
leather pouch, Test your Luck again! If you are Lucky,
you can leave the scene and make for Lobster Wharf
(turn to 354) or Weaver Gate (turn to 212). Otherwise,
some militiamen arrive, so tum to 279.

102-103

102
Fortunately for you, the Ogre isn't very skilful, but he
is exceedingly tough: when he hits you, his heavy club
causes 3 points of damage to your stAMiNA instead of
the usual 2, so you must overcome him swiftly!

WOODLAND OGRE SKILL 8

If you win, will you:

STAMINA 27

Climb the vine, if you haven't done
so? Turn to 348

Untie the Ogre’s sack? Turn to 375
Enter the red tree door? Turn to 123
Enter the yellow passage? Turn to 292

103
You are certain that eyes are watching you as you
strol] around in the town. Add 1 to your Nemesis
score, unless you are wearing grey robes: if you are,
Test your Luck. If you are Lucky, you aren't noticed
and you don't have to increase your Nemesis score
(and retain + .ucK point!) If you're Unlucky, suspicious
eyes are turned your way and you must add 1 to your
Nemesis score. Turn to 125.

104-106

104

The mirrors before you are crackling with sparks of
light and a shadowy form is rising up from one of
them. To either side of you a passageway suddenly
opens up from the phalanxes of mirrors — one red, one
silver. Everything is a roar of confusion and unpredict-
ability as a horrific, four-armed, four-faced humanoid
steps out of a mirror in front of you and advances on
you! Will you:

Fight the Mirror Demon? Tum to 381

Flee down the red passage? Tum to 123

Flee down the silver passage? Turn to 146
105

The guards draw their weapons at the sight of the
coiled black serpent with glowing red eyes. ‘Impostor!’
one of them cries out. ‘None of the Black Brotherhood
would fail to wear his robes here!’ You are swiftly
surrounded by guards and overwhelmed. Your adven-
ture ends here.

106
Nevill has the following useful items for sale:

Potion of STAMINA 7 Gold Pieces
Potion of Luck 4 Gold Pieces
Potion of Invisibility 6 Gold Pieces
Bottle of Catstink 3 Gold Pieces
Vial of smoke powder 2 Gold Pieces
Tattooing ink and needle 3 Gold Pieces
Poison Antidote 1 Gold Piece per dose

Poison Salve 3 Gold Pieces per vial
106

The Potion of Invisibility has a self-explanatory effect.
Evil-smelling, green, gluey Catstink is a valuable item:
it throws off your scent any pursuing wolves or dogs;
sprayed on the ground, it confuses them hopelessly.
Smoke powder (Nevill will give you a flint and taper
to make a fuse for it) may be a useful decoy, camou-
flage or obscurement, and who knows when this may
be vital to you? The Poison Antidote can be used after
a combat to cure all damage to your STAMINA due to
poison suffered in that combat. Poison Salve can be
smeared on at any time: it negates all damage caused
by poison during the next combat when a poisoned
weapon is used against you. Nevill has only one of
each item, save for Poison Antidote and Salve. Make
any purchases you wish, and adjust your Adventure
Sheet accordingly. When you're done, you can chat
casually to Nevill to find out whether he knows
anything helpful to you (turn to g2); alternatively, will
you now:

Shop at the Firewater Emporium? Turn to 37
Buy other supplies? Turn to 373
Relax at the taverns of Ismater, if

you haven't done so? Tum to 207
Leave Ismater? Tum to 268

107-108

107
Test your Luck, If you are Lucky, the gas does not
ignite; but if you are Unlucky, a flare erupts round you
from a pocket of dangerous methane and you lose 4
STAMINA points. Turn to 347.

108

You close in on the true High Priest of the Night
Dragon's Cult of Darkness! You must subtract 1 from
your Attack Strength when fighting him; the stench
which exudes from his rotting flesh nauseates you as it
enters your nostrils and throat and makes your eyes
water. For the first two Attack Rounds, the Stalker-
Mage will use spells against you. If he has the higher
Attack Strength, he will conjure glowing magical
serpent-forms to rise up and strike you, burying their
shining fangs in your body. You will lose 4 stAmINA
points from this attack (2 of these points being caused
by a form of poison). Thereafter the Stalker-Mage wil]
attack with a poisoned shortsword; if he has the
higher Attack Strength, you will lose 2 sTAMINA
points from the weapon below, plus an extra 2
STAMINA points due to poison. The poison will have
evaporated from the blade after three Attack Rounds;
thereafter, his hits will cause you to lose only the
normal 2 STAMINA points

BONE STALKER-MAGE  skILL 23. STAMINA 16

If you win, you know that the single exit passage
leads to the lair of the Night Dragon. If you are ready
to go there, turn to 48. If you wish to spend time
exploring this chamber, turn to 278.
109-110

109
If you are the only living person in the room, you can
easily escape before the door is broken down; turn to
397. If there are militiamen in the room with you, you
must Test your Skill, adding 2 to the number rolled. If
you are successful, you evade them and jump down
into the back streets, where you evade their pursuit.
But now you're going to be hunted by the militia,
which will make your quest very difficult in future.
Turn to 387. If you fail, turn to 143.

110
After a wearying crawl you find a trapdoor in the
passage; you gently raise it and peer through. You are
looking directly down on to a crossroads of passage-
ways; you guess from your bearings that one of the
passages leads to the entrance, and probably a guard-
room, too! If you want te drop to the floor here. you
may do so; but you fear that there may be a concealed
pit trap below! This could just be paranoia on your
part, but you cannot be sure! If you have a rope, you
may descend safely (but you must leave the rope
behind); tum to 323. If you haven’t, you must Test

LAL—1i2

your Skill. If you are successful, you descend safely; if
you fail, you fall and must lose 2 sTAMINA points.
Turn to 323. Alternatively, if you don’t want to risk
the fall, add 1 to your Time Track and go back to the
main entrance; turn to 197,

111
The Great Jarl gets your drift very quickly. His eye
gleams with mischief and he leans forward to sctutinize
you closely. ‘Well, runt, ] am a giant of honour, Is that
not so?’ he says as he turns to his followers. They al!
Murmur in agreement. ‘It amuses me that you seek a
challenge to take this shield we have had for so many
decades. Not many short folk would dare! You are
brave — stupid, but brave — so I shall accept.’ He rises
to his feet, yawns and stretches, then lazily picks up
his enormous, double-handed stone axe. The Great Jarl
is probably seven metres tall and, quite honestly, he
looks as if he could have you for breakfast. Fighting
him would be the toughest fight you have ever had in
your life. Unfortunately, you don’t have to fight him.
His cabin door swings open and his son and champion
strides in. He is introduced as Bagghurd and, while he
looks about as smart as a rock, he makes his father
look like a pygmy, He has muscles in places you
wouldn't have thought possible, and he pauses in his
habitual drooling to lick his lips at the thought of
fighting you. If you are going to take up the challenge,
tum to 204. If you decide to back down, turn to 170.

112
Back aboad ship, you are graciously given some hot
113-114

boiled Greel for lunch. It has the taste and texture of
boiled boots flavoured with fish oil, but at least it’s
hot and nutritious. The mist is beginning to lift and,
despite the captain's gloom, the ship arrives at its
destination just before dusk. Turn to 304.

L13
Without a Magic Sword, you cannot harm the
Chillshadow! Its numbing cold freezes you and you
become paralyzed, You stand, rooted to the spot,
unable to move for what seems like ages. Roll one die,
and add the number rolled to your Time Track. Then
the Bone Stalker advances on you... Turn to 361

114
The signature reads ‘Scalmagzaprin’, so you make a
note of this name; he may be someone in a position of
authority here, and certainly the small tower symbol

115-116

below his name suggests that he may be found in the
northern towers of Carmex. Now, will you:

Open the cage here, if you haven't
already done so?
Leave this room and open the door

Tum to 91

opposite? Tum to 310
Leave the brewery and make for the

towers? Turn to 383
Backtrack and leave the town of

Carnex? Turn to 75

145

Your dwarven guides lead you along endless gloomy
passages, but their exceptional underground senses
alert them to prowling monsters before even you
would have detected them. Your feet are sore with
marching for two days (add 4 to your Time Track) by
the time the Dwarfs show you a descending, grey-
misted passageway leading down into a fog-occluded
chamber, ‘There lie the Mist Crypts,’ your guide says
grimly. ‘May the gods go with you there! What you
seek lies in their depths; be sure to keep heading
downwards.’ You make your way across the slippery
floor of the cavérm and, peering through the gloom,
you see a door emerging from the mists directly ahead
of you. There is also a side-passage leading upwards.
If you choose to make your way upwards, turn to 356.
if you decide to open the door instead, tur to 132.

116
You walk safely along the passageway, although your
117

feet stick to the glutinous muck on the floor. Will you
follow one of the descending side-passages (turn to
164) or press on forward to the pillars and chamber in
front of you (turn to 392)?

117
You wil! never have faced a stranger enemy than the
magical Pyramidal Cell now in front of you. The Cell
cannot attack you physically, but it can (and will!) use
magical energy to attack, In each Attack Round, if you
have the higher Attack Strength, you can strike the
Pyramidal Cell and disrupt its metabolism, so it cannot
use magic. If it has the higher Attack Strength, it will
use the magical force available to it to strengthen itself
or to attack you; roll one die and consult the table below
to discover what happens.

DIEROLL — EFFECT
1 + i to Cell’'s skit

Cell regains 2 STAMINA points

You are drained of 1 Luck point

You lose 2 STAMINA points

You lose 3 STAMINA points

You lose 4 STAMINA points

An Ub

PYRAMIDAL CELL STAMINA 11

If you win, and if you have an HONOUR score of 3 or
higher and you have a Sphere of Light, add 130 to the
Sphere Number and tur to that paragraph. If you do
not have the Sphere of Light, or if your HONOUR is
less than 3, you descend and follow the passage
below; turn to 53.

SKILL 10

118-119

118
Suddenly you become aware of a loud purring noise!
You look down in astonishment, to see a golden
gingery cat sitting at your side, looking up at you
rather quizzically. ‘Oh well. two out of three isn’t too
bad,’ it says, stroking iis whiskers with a heavy and
well-clawed paw. ‘Time to go now?’

‘Go where?’ you ask, not stopping to think how odd
you look talking to a cat.

‘To the Loremaster, of course,’ the cat says impatiently.
It’s only a few hundred kilometres away.’ Your heart
sinks at the thought of a long-distance march after
your strength-sapping excursions in the hills and moun-
tains. However, the cat jumps into your arms, looks
into your eyes and purrs, ‘Quite a simple spell really.
Let’s do it.’ Everything turns into a blue-white haze
oom you and you feel very unsteady indeed. Turn to
266.

119
You don‘t wake from your sleep. Your body is left
with its throat cut for the northern wolves to find, and
your adventure ends here.

120-122

120
Once more you open the door with ease and you peer
into the room beyond. It is a weapons chamber, with
stone axes, a couple of shortswords, two swords of
larger size (usable by humans like yourself!), small
crossbows and polearms. However, you can’t simply
enter and take whatever you like. Barring your way is
a Stone Dwarf of bizarre aspect: his body is covered in
stony spines and both his arms hold lengths of barbed
stone, rather like petrified spears. As you watch, the
stone figure jerks stiffly into life and begins to move
threateningly towards you! If you want to fight the
stone Dwarf, tum to 282. If you wish to close this
door and go elsewhere, you can do so; you may open
the door opposite, if you haven't yet done so (turn to
80), or you can return up the steps (turn fo 232).

421

The cowardly wizard falls at your feet and thanks you.
You are disgusted with the sight, but he gives you
what treasure he has: 7 Gold Pieces, a set of iron keys
which, he tells you, will open the door further down
the corridor, and some food (add 4 to your Provisions)
You bind and gag him, and push his wriggling body
under a table out of sight. Turn to 308.

122
During the first day at sea, you need food to keep
yourself warm against the freezing chill of the north
wind; you must eat a meal. As dusk begins to fall,
there is a commotion on deck as a lookout yells,
‘Greels! Two of ‘em on the port side!’ You soon find
123-124

out what a Greel is, when a metre-thick, white-furred
neck lunges over the port bow and a brutish, eel-like
head darts towards you. The beast opens its black-
lipped mouth to display rows of backward-pointing
teeth as long as daggers. You must fight for your life!

GREEL SKILL 9 STAMINA 13

If you win, turn to 208

123
You feel yourself being sucked along the pulsating
length of the endless red passage until you find your-
self back in the chamber you first arrived in. Turn to
20.

124
Stormdrake Pass, which grows narrower as the peaks
of the Dragon Reaches margin begin to ascend round
it, is not a well-travelled path. The only signs of life
you see as you trudge along the rocky track are birds

125

wheeling overhead and an occasional lethargic rock
lizard skittering away from your footsteps. A few
thick-leaved succulents hug the ground tightly, the
only plant life you can see, This is barren terrain
indeed, but you feel fortunate at having avoided any
monsters during your first day’s travel, and you sleep
safely in a small cave. Add 2 to your Time Track, and
you must now eat a meal. The following day you
soon come to a fork in the trail. North-north-west, the
trail is hardly perceptible any longer; pointing to the
north-eastern fork is a badly weathered wooden sign,
where you can just make out what is left of the
original inscription; it says simply: ‘TO IS ER’.
You cannot decipher the letters in the middle. If you
want to head north-eastwards, tum to 322, If you
want to go to the north-north-west, turn to 23.

125
The town is broadly divided in half, with the bigger
houses and those of merchants to the north and the
homes of ordinary labourers and artisans to the south.
You find a little food shop tucked away in a side
street; if you want to get extra Provisions, you can
126-127

buy them at 1 Gold Piece per meal here. The major
features of Carnex appear to be the very large and
spacious graveyards to the north-east, a group of three
towers standing behind a curtain wall to the north,
some fine gardens to the north-west, and a large
brewery to the south-west. There are also two taverns
on the south side of town. Where will you go to now?

The taverns? Turn to 142
The gardens? Tum to 175
The brewery? Turn to 209
The towers? Turn to 383
The graveyards? Turn to 355

126
You have taken too long! Grey- and black-robed men
are swarming into the room from downstairs and you
are trapped. You are swiftly overwhelmed and taken
to a ghastly chamber of sacrifice. Your adventure ends
here.

127
The Dwarfs return your newly repaired chainmail to

128-129

you {add 2 to your Time Track); the new steel links
show hardly any sign of the old rents in the armour.
You may add i to your Attack Strength in all combats,
but when you enter the mountain lair of the Shadow
Dragon you may add 3 to your Attack Strength,
thanks to the magical properties of this armour! Gain 1
LUCK point. Turn to 220.

128

The Red Wizard reaches the end of the passage while
you watch him leave. As he is about to disappear
through the door at the base of the spinal passage, he
tums and yells an oath at you, and casts a spell! A
globe of fire flies from his fingers. Test your Luck. If
you are Lucky, you are able to duck back into his
room and avoid the ball of flame, but if you are
Unlucky, you are hit by the spell and you must lose 4
STAMINA points! Then the treacherous Wizard is gone
Turn to 308.

129
You casually mention the Frost Giants to Nevill and
130

he grins knowingly. ‘Ah, well now, there’s an easy
way of impressing them. Neat little trick if one of
them gets nasty and you have to accept a challenge.
Get yourself a bottle of firewater from old Benskens
the Gnome, and an empty one spare. Fill the empty
one up with water — no one’ll know in that dark-green
bottle — and seal the cork again. Then, if a Giant gets
nasty, challenge him to a fight — after you've had a
bottle of firewater each, They never say no to that,
you know. Give the Giant the real stuff while you
drink the water. Actually, buy as many bottles as
you've got the gold for. If you're heading that way,
you'll need all the firewater you can get.’ Now, will
you:

Ask Nevill about grey- and black-

robed men? Turn to 160
Ask Nevill about the Dragon

Conclave? Turn to 198
Leave and shop at the Firewater

Emporium? Turn to 39
Shop elsewhere for supplies? Turn to 373

Relax in Ismater’s taverns, if you
haven't already done so?
Leave Ismater?

Tum to 207
Turn to 268

130
Standing in front of the door beyond the statue, you
should have the armour you seek before you go any
further; if you have the armour, you know the Armour
Number, Multiply that number by five, then turn to
the paragraph with that number, If you don’t have the

151-1352

armour, turn to 232 and search once more in the upper
dungeon level.

131
To your chagrin you cannot make out the signature
here, so you tear up the note! Now, will you:

Open the cage, if you haven't already

done so? Turn to 91
Leave here and open the door

opposite? Turn to 310
Backtrack and leave the town of

Carnex? Tum to 75

132

Beyond the door, you walk along a short and very
narrow length of cut stone passageway until you
come to a second door, which you open with ease;
stepping into the chamber beyond, the door closes
silently behind you, and now it is absolutely Aush
with the wall. You realize how well designed a secret
door it is from inside this room, and you wonder
whether you should look for other similar hidden
portals within the crypts beyond! Turn to 201.

ow

=

”

—=

. 7

. ‘

my fa. | BN)
wh3 ;
<. "* RE Se eas rT
—_ “en “
tl, ca ie “< lh
“a — wee

133-135

133
Beyond this plain wooden door is a very long passage
which rises up a gentle slope, with sets of steps cut in
it every twenty metres or so. Along the high ceiling
tun heavy stone and metal pipes; despite the solidity
of the material they're made from, they seem to
pulsate and throb in a slow rhythm. In the far distance
there appears to be a spiral staircase leading upwards,
but there are three doors before that — two on your
right, one close and one distant, and one on your left
in between. You have a strong feeling that trying to
smash the pipes would definitely raise the alarm and
you don’t want to risk that. So, will you:

Open the nearer right-hand door? Turn to 389

Open the left-hand door? Turn to 183

Open the further right-hand door? Turn to 299

Head for the spiral staircase? Turn to 262
134

You rush the Giant and startle him with your first
blow, but then he raises his axe to fight you, You
were warned that these Frost Giants were tougher
than most, and now you're about to find out at first

hand!
FROST GIANT SKILL 10 STAMINA 10
If you win, turn to 371.

135

You retreat a little way and try to form a plan for
getting into Carnex undetected and bypassing the
136-137

guards at the gate. Add x to your Time Track as you
ponder, and you must now eat a meal. After observing
the few comings and goings of the town, you consider
that you have three options: ambushing one of the
grey-robed men you see walking in and out of the
place and taking his robes to bluff your way past the
guards (turn to 61); trying to get information out of
one of the ordinary villagers (turn to 79); or giving up
and going somewhere else (turn to 370).

1 136
You tell the Dragon that you do not want him to
suffer the curse an Oath-breaking brings, and he looks
at you with mingled relief and uncertainty. Gain 1
HONOUR point. Now where do you want to go to?

Turn to 288
Turn to 217

South-west to the sword?
North-west to the armour?
South-east to the Frost Giants and

the shield? Turn to 39

137
As you make your way towards the eastern face of
the mountain, a black-cloaked creature two metres tall
leaps out from behind the cover of a large rock to
attack you! Jts body is vaguely human in proportion,
but its great, green, scaly head is reptilian and its arms
end in four-fingered, clawed hands. Its yellow, slitted
eyes are full of hatred and menace as it snarls and spits
at you and foetid, brown-yellow wisps of noxious gas
drift out of its fanged mouth! One of the Night
Dragon’s Stalkers is upon you, and battling it will be

138

difficult. During each Attack Round, whenever you
have a lower Attack Strength than your enemy, you
must Test your Skill. If you ever fail the test, the
Stalker breathes over you and its foul breath weakens
you; you will have to subtract 2 points fom your
Attack Strength during the rest of this combat, and 1
point from your Attack Strength in the next combat
you face.

GREEN STALKER SKILL 10 STAMINA 10

If you win, and you slay the horror, its eyes gaze at
you with a malign menace as it perishes, as if someone
— or something — else was still looking at you. Add 1
to your Nemesis score. Now you can continue your
search round the mountain (turn to 169) or return to
the tunnel entrance you know of and enter there (turn
to 78)

138
You follow the passageway to the turn and beyond it
towards a door in the distance. Then from behind you,
a great iron-barred portcullis slams down from the
ceiling, completely blocking the path back. From before
you comes an ominous banging at the heavy wooden
door, as if something on the far side were trying to
get out! You strain to lift the portcullis, but it is very
heavy. You can now try one of two strategies. You
can try to force the portcullis up by the exercise of
sustained strength. If you do this, you are allowed two
attempts before the door opens. At each attempt you
must Test your Skill, and you need only one success to
escape; but you must add 4 to the number rolled on
1539-141

the dice! Alternatively. you can try a single mighty
heave. You get only one such attempt; you must Test
your Skill, adding 1 to the number rolled, but the effort
is indeed mighty and you pull a muscle (deduct 2
points from your STAMINA and you must subtract 1
from your Attack Strength for the next combat). If
you fail, turn to 263. If you are successful, the portcullis
opens, you escape and it closes behind you; turn to
182.

. 139
You are beyond the reach of the angry Ogre when he
tries to swat you out of the vine — but now the huge
brute hugs the base of the large vine and is trying to
shake you out of it! Test your Skill once more; if you
are successful, tum to 348; but if you fail, turn to 158.

140
‘| have an urgent appointment with High Priest Scal-
magzaprin in person,’ you announce with all the auth-
ority you can muster. ‘The breath of the Ancient will
be upon you if I am delayed in my business!’ If your
Nemesis score is 7 or higher, you must Test your Luck;
if you are Lucky, you are allowed to pass, so tum to
26. If you are Unlucky, turn to 203. If your Nemesis
score is 6 or below, the guards tremble in their boots
and let you enter the central tower; turn to 26,

141
Your hands, arms and face throb with pain while you
hold the mirror close to the furnace for a few seconds,
then you are forced to retreat, biting back a cry of

142-143

agony. Deduct 5 points from your sTAMINA. However,
the mirror’s bloodstones are glowing brilliant ruby-red
now, and something of the furnace’s heat seems to
have been drawn into those pulsating gemstones. You
may add 2 points to your Initial stAMINA score, and
make a note that when you meet the Night Dragon
you may subtract 3 from its sTAMINA score! Now turn
to 308.

142
You will learn nothing of interest in the taverns of the
town. Local people actually move away from you, and
their talk is very guarded. If you are wearing grey
robes, add i to your Nemesis score: there are no
robed men in the taverns here! Choose somewhere
else to visit, where you have not been before. Will
you head for:

The gardens? Turn to 199
The brewery? Tum to 209
The towers? Turn to 383
The graveyards? Turn to 355

143

The militia are very suspicious indeed, although they
early know the grey-robed men to be evil people.
They cart you off to jail and keep you there for some
time. If you didn’t try to escape through the window
of the tavern room, they hold you for two days (add 4
to your Time Track). If you did try to escape that
way, they hold you for five days (add 10 to your
Time Track). Then they turf you out, Tum to 387.
3447745

144
Dragging yourself through the aperture, you have
ascended into a domed hemisphere of a chamber with
what looks like the starry skies in the heavens above
you: blue and yellow twinkling lights cascading from a
thousand stalactite-like growths high above. Brilliant
sparks of light flash from one glowing point to another,
tracing out a vast spider's web of scintillating colour.
In the middle of this chamber is a pyramidal creature,
half transparent and gelatinous, with tentacles that
project up into the dome and down into the rubbery
floor. Round the pyramid flit dark, wraith-like shapes
that radiate a chill you can feel where you stand. You
have no idea how dangerous entry may be, but you
sense powerful magic at work, and a thrill of fear races
up your spine. If you want to step forward, turn to 88.
I€ you prefer to descend and follow the twisting
passageway below, turn to 53.

145
You are almost at the top of the glacier when a clatter

of rocks comes tumbling down on your head! Lose 2
STAMINA points. One heavy stone hits you on the
forehead and dazes you; you must subtract 1 from
your Attack Strength for the combat you're about to
face. You manage to hang on to the ice and not be
swept off by this assault; gain 1 LUCK point. When
you get to your feet on the ridge, you face a skeletal
attacker armed with a long, barbed polearm weapon
with which it has a long reach, making it difficult to
get at. It manages to wield this with one bony hand
while gripping a curved dagger in the other to attack
146-147

you if you do manage to get close! If the Skeleton
rolls 17 or higher for its Attack Strength, it will hit
you even if you have the higher Attack Strength (if
you have, you both land blows in the same Attack
Round), and if you don’t Test your Skill successfully
after such a blow you will slip and fall on the ice, If
you fall, you must subtract 4 from your Attack

Strength in the next Attack Round.
SKELETON SKILL 8 STAMINA 7

If you win, turn to 276,

You have wandered into a maze of passages which
confuse and disorientate you. Roll one die; if you roll
4 Of 5, you emerge from the maze safely; turn to 20. If
you roll a 6, turn to 366. If you roll 3 or below, add 1
to your Time Track and roll the die again until you do
roll 4 or higher. If you wish, you can spend a LUCK
point to add 1 to the number rolled on the die; but
you can tum to 366 only if you actually roll a 6 on
the die,

147
You are almost half-way down the steps when a spell

148

slams into your body; a black web-pattern of magical
energy drawn from centuries of dreams of destruction
and death wraps round you, cutting into your body
and limbs. Your magical armour may save you from
this; Test your Luck, adding 3 to the total rolled. If you
are Lucky, your armour absorbs the spell! If you are
Unlucky, you lose 4 points from your sTAMINA and 1
point from your skit. You drag yourself onwards
down the steps; tun to 271

148

You rise to your full height and challenge the Frost
Giant champion to drink a bottle of firewater with you
before the fight! The onlookers gasp as one Giant.
You hand Bagghurd the real stuff, and you yourself
drain the water in your own bottle. Bagghurd is
certainly looking somewhat cross-eyed after he has
laboured to finish the drink, and you can deduct 2
from his Attack Strength during the coming fight.
Return to 204 and fight.

149-151

149
Your weapon shrivels in the fiery blast of the breath
that envelops you in a cloud of dreadful heat and
smoke! Lose 6 STAMINA points. If you are still alive,
you rush your enemy; turn to 295

150
‘Chieftain of thirty years’ great leadership and might, |
do not come to rob your tombs,’ you cry out, hoping
for the best. Now, what is your Nemesis score? If it
is 4 or higher, turn to 173. If it is 3 or lower, turn to
202

151
Pushing open the door to the brewery, a strong
smell of hops and malt comes from the barrel-filled
room you enter. There is a door to your right, one
to your left, and one in front of you. Which will you
open?
The door to your left?
The door before you?
The door to your right?

Turn to 245
Turn to 341
Turn to 221

1g2—153

152
Dwarven artisans, still stony and awkward, take some
time to repair the chainmail armour for you. Add 5 to
your Time Track; but they do a fine job. The chain
armour is light and supple, and it adds 1 to your
Attack Strength in all combats, except against Stalkers
and the Night Dragon — against whom it adds 2 to
your Attack Strength! Turn to 220.

153
The Frost Giant leaps to his feet as you approach and
holds his axe threateningly above his head; but some-
thing tells you he’s rather wary of you and his gesture
is just bluster. ‘I'm looking for the Chieftain of your
people,’ you say with all the authority you can muster.

‘Oh teally?’ he replies. ‘Why would the Great Jarl want
to see you, Shorty?’ You both bluster for a while, but
what it comes down to in the end is that this Frost
Giant will take you to the Great Jarl’s camp if you
give him an appropriate gift. You have to give the
Frost Giant 4 Gold Pieces, a bottle of firewater or a
flask of liqueur as a bribe. If you are willing to do this,
amend your Adventure Sheet accordingly and tum to
igo. If you don’t have any of these items, or are
simply too mean to give this Giant anything, matters
are going to be much more difficult for you; turn to

5371.

154-155

154
Beyond the half-open door is a very strange laboratory
indeed. A tall, lean, satumine man in red robes trimmed
with black rises from his seat at a table filled with
glass globes, retorts and pipes. Criss-crossing the wall

¥ 5 | ay Rab 3) F ( | Te and ceiling above the table are strange, tentacle-like
: <a ‘ Sao | Pas saat Bore growths which pulsate, making the squelching noises
; PAR ANA bik, ll les Po you heard outside. They run into the walls of the

room, and coloured liquids from the alchemical glass-
ware are drawn through tubes into these peculiar
growths, A pile of broken, reptilian skulls lies on the
far side of the room, and in a huge bell jar a half-dozen
reptile brains float in black brine. A large tube runs
from this vessel to the largest of the tentacles, which
pulsates constantly and drips glutinous slime on to the
floor. This is peculiar enough, but you have no time to
take in the fine details; the wizard is readying his
attack! To begin with, the wizard will attempt to pull a
lever beside his large work-table. When he wins an
Attack Round (he has a skILt of 11) he will do so; tum
to 384. When you win Attack Rounds, you will inflict
damage on him; if you manage to kill him outright
without his ever having the higher Attack Strength in
an Attack Round (he has a stAMINA Of 15), turn to 76.

155
For a second time your contact has been slain by
assassins! The Elf manages a few words before the
poison on the dart kills him. ‘North-north-west,’ he
croaks, ‘along Stormdrake Pass. Frost Giants have .-.
Take them firewater, Ismater . ..’ and then he is dead.
What will you do now?

156-158

Buy some extra equipment or food? Turn to 236
Sell them furs, if you have some to

sell? Turn to 68
Leave Rentarn for Stormdrake Pass? Turn to 178

156
You run full pelt into a barrier of magical force, and it
feels as if you have run straight into a rock face.
Deduct 3 points from your sTAMINA, and now you
must Test your Skill, If you are successful, turn to 108
If you fail, turn to 368,

157
‘Quiet enough, the Dwarf says as he takes another
gulp of strong ale. ‘There's a village, Sharndale, north
of the woods and not much else before yer get to
Rentarn. But I have seen a Frost Giant or two to the
north-east, although I haven’t heard of them attacking
hunters or trappers hereabouts. You don’t want to be
fighting any of them — they're as tough as my boots. If
you've got some firewater with you, though, they'll
drink themselves stupid on it. Drunkards, they are.’ If
you want to ask the Dwarf about something else, you
can ask about the Dragon Reaches (turn to ge) or the
men in grey (turn to 337); or you can just turn in for
the night and get some sleep (turn to 275)

158
You land heavily in falling off the vine. Deduct 5
points from your STAMINA and now you are forced to
fight the enormous monster; turn to 102,

159

159

You do not interrupt the chieftain as he explains the
plight of his people. They are cursed to live as beings
of stone; a Great Wyrm appeared in their mines and
turned them to stone with its terrible petrifying gaze,
The Dwarfs believe the Wyrm appeared because they
disturbed an ancient evil sleeping far to the north
when their mines spread far and wide below the
Dragon Reaches. They also believe that you have
come to slay the Wyrm and lift their curse of ages.
They see the torn armour you carry, and they offer to
repair this if you slay the Wyrm. You have a horrible
suspicion that what they call a Wyrm is in reality a
Basilisk, which turns people to stone if they meet its
gaze; but you have no choice You heft your sword
and agree to slay the monster, Again the Dwarfs
cheer, and they guide you through the great hall to a
descending pit cage which leads down to the mines,
The ancient mechanism which operates it begins to
clank, and by some minor miracle it delivers you
safely to the deep mines. Add 1 to your Time Track.
Opening the barred iron door, you step on to wet,
cold rock and breathe in dank air. Water drips every-
where in the gloom here, and the silence is as ominous
as the darkness your lantern barely illuminates. You
can follow a mine shaft leading in one of four direc-
tions; will you go:

North? Turn to 297
South? Turn to 242
West? Turn to 14

East? Turn to 302
160-161

160

Nevill’s demeanour changes abruptly; he looks filled
with fear. ‘Walls have ears,’ he hisses, ‘never mention
those men! They come from Carnex. They brew ale
there, so they say, and they do deliver it here, but
they're bad, vile, blackhearted scum. Don’t speak of
them here!’ He ushers you out of his shop. Now, will
you:

Shop at the Firewater Emporium? Turn to 37
Buy some supplies? Turn to 373
Relax in the taverns, if you haven't

done so? Turn to 207
Leave Ismater? Tum to 268

161
The new day is bitterly cold. You lose 2 sTAMINA
points because of the wind chill as a gale whips across
the frozen plains, unless you have some Firewater. If
you have, sipping it will keep you warm and you need
lose no STAMINA points (since you take a sip only,
you do not have to remove the Firewater from your
Adventure Sheet). You are now closing in on the moun-
tain range to the north, and to your left you see, some
distance away, a column of figures heading north.
Taking care to conceal yourself, you approach them to
take a closer look. You see that a hundred or so
ragged folk, chained together, are being shepherded
along by a group of four grey-robed men; periodically
the slaves are being struck with cruel whips by their
captors. If you decide to leave well alone here, turn to
258. If you decide to attack the grey-robed men, even

162-163

though four of them are a force to be reckoned with,
tum to 69.

162

Suddenly you are aware of a loud purring noise! You
look down in astonishment and see a golden gingery
cat sitting at your side, looking up at you with an
expression of admiration. ‘Well done! All three —
sword, shield and armour! There's hope for you yet.’
You gawp at the talking cat, not sure what to say
‘Come_on,” it says as it leaps into your arms, ‘it's time
to see the Loremaster. He's waiting, and he can be an
impatient old man at times.” As the cat speaks, every-
thing round you merges into a bluish-white haze and
you feel very giddy as the world just seems to vanish
far into the distance. Turn to 266.

163
You can take enough food here for 4 meals (add 4 to
your Provisions); as you turn to leave, however, the
guard, who was only feigning sleep, leaps up and
strikes you on the back with a heavy, iron-banded
wooden staff! Deduct 2 points from your stAMINA:
you must fight him
164-166

GREY ACOLYTE SKILL 8 STAMINA 9
If you win, will you:
Head for the door to your right? Turn to 342
Make for the door opposite you? Turn to 245
Leave the brewery and explore
elsewhere in Carnex? Turn to 333

164

The passages curve around to join one another and
descend into a huge, barren chamber in which a massive
ring of three-metre-tall bones stands round the walls.
Those nearest you are blunt, those further ahead are
sharp and tooth-shaped, You realize that this is a kind of
model of a gigantic mouth. Exploring this huge cavern
would take much time; if you wish to search it, turn to
349. [f you want to go back up the passage and retrace
your steps, add 1 to your Time Track and turn to 392.

165
You mark a spider’s-web pattern round a black reptilian
skull on your arm and advance towards the guards,
showing them the tattoo. IF you are wearing grey robes,
they allow you to pass and enter the tower. If you are not
wearing grey robes, they are suspicious of you, but you
manage to bluff your way through; gain 1 Luck point, but
you must also add i to your Nemesis score. Tum to 26.

166
The keys on the table don’t fit the chest, and there are
no keys on the bodies of the Assassins you have slain.
Trying to prise open the lock on the chest, you must

167

Test your Skill. If you do not have an ice pick (which
you can use to prise off the lock}, you must add z to
the number rolled on the dice. If you are successful,
turn to 280, If you fail, turn to 297.

167

At last, down at the docks, you have a stroke of good
luck. One of the throng of sailors appears to know
something. "Ah, the Endimion, Due in from the Eelsea
on the lunchtime tide. Me bruyver’s second mate on
that ship,” he says, his chest swelling with family pride.
Sure enough, come noontime, the ship arrives at the
dock. You ask the captain if he has any passengers on
board; even as you speak, however, you see out of the
comer of your eye a black-cloaked figure skulking
below decks. Fearing he may be up to no good, you
yell at him, and he spins around to face you — a Dark
Elf! He holds up his hands to hush you and, as he
does, his head jerks backwards and you see a long,
heavy dart suddenly protruding from his neck, On the
dockside, you spot a black-robed man darting away
into 4 warehouse. If you want to pursue this assassin,
turn to 6. If you want to try to help the Dark Elf
turn to 455.

168-169

168
By the time you reach the bottom of the stairs the
grinding and booming sounds are deafening. Peering
round the corner of the stairs with your fists over
your ears to shut out the sound, you see a bizarre
scene, You are standing on the left-hand side of an
oval room which has huge, fery, stone pits sunk at
each side, and hammering up and down into them — as
if grinding something at the bottom of the pits — are a
pair of stone cylinders with fire-blackened bases, Bumn-
ing arcs of steaming red liquid fly up from the pits as
the columns hammer down, and this liquid looks as if
it could be boiling blood! Standing in the middle of
the room is a very powerful-looking and bewilderingly
strange object: three metres tall, the figure is made out
of stone and it looks rather like a skeletal Dragon, with
very powerful hind limbs terminating in great clawed
blocks of red-veined black rock, It is standing on its
hind legs and metronomically moving its forelegs up
and down; the columns rise and fall in unison with its
movements. The obvious toughness and power of this
juggernaut-statue give you pause for thought. If you
wish to attack the statue, turn to 274. If you wish to
climb back up the stairs and search elsewhere, turn to

67.

a ate Tei taal
— —»
— =: - —__ =
Ke

= S;

ee
~ = -
—— ——

i
'
i
i>
]
‘
tr
}
;
’

169
You don’t find another entrance, but do discover a
clump of fleshy, thick-leaved plants growing in a small
gully. The leaves and roots are fairly tough, but
they're nourishing and you may add 3 to your Pro-
visions. Gain 1 LUCK point and turn to 78.

170-171

170
You respectfully say that, having seen the awesome
might of the Great Jarl’s son, he is clearly the most
powerful fighter that Titan has ever seen and no one
could possibly hope to match him. Your flattery saves
your skin, but you have backed out of a challenge you
suggested, so you must lose 1 point of HONOUR. The
Frost Giants sneer at you, and you can’t now suggest
some form of barter. You have to slink away from
their camp and spend the night out in the wilds. Turn
to 298. .

11
If you have a STAMINA score of 20 or more, the first
mate looks you over and decides you're a strong
fellow, so you can get passage for a mere 4 Gold
Pieces, if you’re prepared to work aboard ship, slaving
at rope-tarring and deck-scrubbing, You'll get a bunk
to sleep in, but you'll have to provide your own food!
If you want to accept this offer and can pay, you must
double the number of meals which you are told to
consume during the journey aboard ship; turn to 122.

172-175

If your STAMINA score is below 20, you have to pay
the full fare of zo Gold Pieces and tum to 122;
otherwise you must travel by land (turn to 212).

172
You stand in a bare guard chamber with a very
strange rising passageway to your left. The slope of
the passage is very steep and the surfaces of the floor,
ceiling and walls are knobbled, almost bony in appear-
ance. All the surfaces drip with a thin, slippery jelly
which will make climbing very difficult and dangerous.
If you have a magical seed pod and you choose to use
it here, you know how many stripes it has; multiply
that number by twenty and turn to the paragraph with
that number. If you do not have it or do not wish to
use it, fFurn to 205.

173
The glowing red eyes of the undead Chieftain fix
themselves upon you, boring deep into you. When it
speaks in a low, rasping voice, it does not seem
hostile. “You are wise to revere my might, warrior. |
174

see that you are marked by an enemy I have no Jove
for. It is still within my power, warrior, to give you
aid. If you are worthy.’ The creature raises its sword
with a threatening gesture. ‘I offer you a bargain. You
must fight and overcome me, and | will guide you
within this place and grant you some power from this
sword — although it is not the one you come seeking
here. if you are too craven, begone and leave me to
my rest.’ Will you accept the challenge to duel with
the Chieftain (turn to 365) or leave (tum to 332)?

174
The Demon is gone and the mirror it emerged from is
now shattered; but something has been left behind
Lying at the base of the broken mirror’s frame is a
silver Magic Mirror with a hundred bloodstones wink-
ing at you from its filigree rim (make a note of the
number of gems as the Mirror Number). This Magic
Mirror is a very valuable find (gain 1 Luck point): it
can perform many functions. It has three charges of
magic left inside it, and you may use a charge at any
time, except during combat, for one of the following
purposes. You may command the Mirror either to
show your reflection as a strong, powerful warrior
(when you do this, your skrit will be restored to its
full, Initial level) or to show you in the best of health
(this will either cure any disease you may acquire or
restore your sTAMINA to its Initial value, as you
choose). Finally, as long as the Mirror has at least one
charge left, you can command it to fly at an opponent
in combat and explode in a vortex of flying glass and
metal shards; if you do this, it will inflict 6 points of

175-176

damage to the stamina of your opponent, but it is
then destroyed. You may do this during any Attack
Round, in addition to your normal weapon blow.
When the Mirror has no charges left it will be useless,
so you must keep a record of the charges you have

used. Now, there are passageways to be explored.
Will it be:

The white passage? Turn to 228
The red passage? Turn to 12%
The silver passage? Turn to 146
The yellow passage? Turn to 292

175
The gardens are pretty and elegant, but townsfolk
again avoid you. The only noteworthy feature you
find is a sluice which appears to drain water away
from an ornamental lily pond, and which you surmise
may also lead down into the sewers below the town.
No one seems to be around watching you so, if you
want to go down into the sewers, turn to 195. Alterna-

tively, you can explore some part of Carmex which
you haven't yet visited. Will this be;

The taverns? Turn to 142
The brewery? Tum to 209
The towers? Tum to 383
The graveyards? Tur to 355

176
You have to carry the man for half a dozen kilometres
before a trapper with a sled overtakes you. The burly
177

trapper recognizes the victim and says he comes from
the village of Sharndale, seven kilometres further along
The two of you unload furs and goods fom the sled,
put the injured man on it, and you help by carrying
the bulky furs along the road to Sharndale. You
deliver the man to his family, who make him as
comfortable as they can, The weather is closing in,
with chill, sleeting rain drifting down from iron-grey
clouds, and you'll not get to Rentarn before dark now
You are invited to stay with the family; they will give
you some furs by way of thanks, as well as hot food
and a comfortable bed for the night. Add 2 to your
Time Track and gain 1 point of HONOUR. Now tum to

504.

177
Your missile shoots harmlessly away into the distance.
The cunning Night Dragon casts a spell at you which
will affect your Magic Armour, if you have some. You
must subtract 1 from the bonus this Armour gives to
your Attack Strength, as it develops metal fatigue and
rust. You've got to find a way to descend! If you wish
to climb down the steps, turn to 147. If you have
Winged Boots, you know the name of the man who

wore them before you; convert his name into a number
using the code A= 1,B=2,C =3...Z= 26. Add

178-180

the numbers corresponding to the letters in his name,
multiply the total by 3, then turn to that paragraph, If
you have a magical seed pod, multiply the number of
stripes in the pod by 21, then turn to that paragraph.

178

If you're leaving Rentarn, there’s a pass which you must
find, ff you know the name of the pass, convert it into a
number using the following code: A = 1, B = 2, C = 3

. Z= 26, Add the numbers corresponding to the
letters in the name together then tum to the paragraph
with that number. If you don’t know the name of the pass,
you must visit the Rudderless Galley tavern; turn to 286

179

A cone-shaped fog of superfrozen magical cold is
heading towards you! If you have a Magic Shield with
you, you know the Shield Number. Turn to the para-
graph with that number. If you do not have it, you
must lose 6 STAMINA points because of the intense
cold of the Dragon’s breath! Turn to 211.

180
The statue takes the coin in its hand, looks at it, then
hands it back to you. It stands as if at ease, moving
away from the door. Turn to 130

181

181

You rush up the stairs and throw open the door to the
highest chamber of the tower. Across the room stands
a snarling High Priest, shrouded in a black miasma of
magical energy; one hand holds a scimitar glowing
with brilliant, crackling blue light, the other holds a
short, slim wooden wand which glows fiery and bright.
You have no time to take in the hideous decoration of
the room, with its mummified bodies, skeletal figures,
vast statues of Dragons and similar horrors; you're
fighting for your life!

In each of the first four Attack Rounds, the High Priest
will discharge his crackling magical wand at you. This
is in addition to his scimitar attack. In each round you
must Test your Skill, adding 3 to the number rolled. If
you fail, you will be struck by a magical bolt and lose
4 points of sTAMtNA. In addition, the evil scimitar the
High Priest uses inflicts 3 points of damage to your
STAMINA with each successful hit. You are up against
a truly terrifying enemy.

HIGH PRIEST SKILL 11 STAMINA 15

If you win, your Nemesis score is reduced by 2 points,
for you have slain the High Priest himself, and his cult
will be too disorganized to pursue or harass you
(though his Stalkers may still be prowling the Icefinger
Mountains!). Add 1 to your Time Track, You now
have a choice: if you want to leave Carnex immedi-
ately, you'll be able to get to safety; turn to 75. If you
want to stay and explore this chamber for treasure, if
only briefly, tum to 315.
182-183

182
Back on the other side of the portcullis, you ought to
find somewhere to explore more worthy of your time
than the unpleasant dead-end you just walked into.
You can go back to the antechamber (turn to 332) or
descend the stairs to the chamber with the well (tum

to 376).

183
The door half-way along the passage opens into a
simple antechamber with a closed door ahead of you
and another door, slightly ajar, to your right. A dis-
tinctly disturbing squelching sound is coming from
behind the open door. Will you:

Open the door ahead of you? Turn to 225
Enter the room beyond the half-open

door? Turn to 154
Just take a peek round the half-open

door? Turn to 331

184-185

184

You row all day and night and most of the next day,
just hoping that your navigational instincts as to the
direction of north are good. You must eat 2 meals
during your journey, and by the time you reach
Corpse Bay you are frozen, exhausted and feeling stiff
all over. You desperately need rest and hot food! Add
2 to your Time Track and turn to 304

185

The grisly Bone Stalker radiates a ghastly, sickening
stench and you must subtract 1 from your Attack
Strength when fighting it. You can reply to the attacks
by its raking claws in one of two ways: you can fight
normally or you can try to direct your blows at the
hand which holds the amulet you seek. If you decide
to take the latter course, you must deduct 3 from your
Attack Strength, but if you win an Attack Round you
sever the claw and grab the amulet; turn to 269. You
can change your attack strategy in any Attack Round
You can also flee this combat at any time and make
for one of the doors by tuming to 377

186

BONE STALKER SKILL 9 STAMINA 11

If you win, turn to 312.

186
You toil and march through the rocky hills until you
find a safe place to sleep. Add 4 to your Time Track,
and now you must eat a meal.

In the moming you find a track going eastwards from
your path and a clear signpost reading ‘CARNEX’.
You can delay your +ravelling and spend some time
foraging and hunting here for extra Provisions if you
are very short of supplies. Each day you spend hunting
and gathering, roll one die and halve the number
rolled (rounding fractions up). This is the number of
extra meals you gather after feeding yourself for the
day; if you have a longbow or a crossbow, you can
add an extra unit of Provisions to your stocks each
day. You may spend as many days as you wish doing
this, but you must add 2 to your Time Track for every
day you stay. When you're ready to travel onwards, if
you want to make for Carex, not having been there
before, turn to 32. If you are heading south to get to
the Mist Crypts, march on: add 4 to your Time Track,
eat a meal, and tum to 2+. Jf you are heading north to
get to Slate Peak, tum to 85.

187-188

187

You can feel your life-energy being sapped by the
mirror; lose § STAMINA points! The bloodstones glow
with a fiery, magical energy and a rather unpleasant
sigh comes from it. ‘Better, better,’ it croons. ‘I have
my own fate and destiny, warrior. It is not for you to
know what they may be. However, in this place my
fate is intertwined with yours. Look’ As the mirror
falls silent, the pounding stone columns crash down
into the pits and are silent! You may add 1 point to
your skiLt (both your current and Initial score), and
make a note that you may subtract 1 from the skILt of
the Night Dragon when you encounter it! Turn to 67

188
As the Mountain Basilisk tums itself to stone, a great
sigh resonates through the entire mine complex as the
curse of ages is lifted) Your Magic Mirror gains 1
charge as it absorbs the magic of the Mountain Basil-
isk’s being, and you gain 2 Luck points! You return to
the pit cage, and the Dwarfs haul you back up to the
dungeons above the mines. They are retumed to their
earthly flesh, and they are abuzz with life and energy!
189-190

Dwarfs scurry to and fro: some are bringing food,
magically conjured from a huge stone comucopia, and
they give you all you can take (restore your Provisions
total to its maximum). Artisans hurry away, carrying
your armour; they head for the smithy, where the
forges are already being rekindled. They apologize that
they have no Giants to roast for a feast, but if you stay
a month or two... Of course you cannot. Tum to 127.

189

Decide what your action will be, then Tesf your Skill. If
you are successful, you get to the pyramidal! creature
before it can use its magic against you. If you are
unsuccessful, you take too long; a glowing beam of
magical energy flows from the pyramid into your chest,
and you feel a terrible, clawing pain clutching at your
heart and vitals; lose 4 sTAMINA points! Turn to 127.

190
The Frost Giant marches off at a good pace; it’s clear
he enjoys watching you have to half-walk and half-run
in order to keep up with him. He’s soon joined by
another Frost Giant, and shortly before the end of the
day you find yourself in the encampment of the Great

191

Jarl and about a hundred other Frost Giants. Pitched
tents, massive wooden cabins, flocks of livestock and
hungry-looking Snow Wolves abound. You're begin-
ning to wonder what you've walked into. Turn to 29

191
The Harlequin tests you with puns, conundrums and
puzzles galore, but you're equal to the task. Oddly
enough, he doesn’t seem to care that you're using a
book to counter his word games. ‘Well, I suppose you
win. Never liked these things anyway,’ he says as he
takes off his boots and throws them to you. You now
own the Harlequin’s Winged Boots; to be more accu-
rate, they are gliding boots that allow you to descend
safely through the air in a gentle glide. The Harlequin
snaps his fingers and dismisses you; the cloud castle
vanishes in a yellow haze and you are back where you
started. Turn to 20.

192-195

192

As you get close to where the gold lies, you can see
round the door — and what's beyond it turns to look
at you. Clothed in rags, filthy and decrepit, the
zombie-like horror crouches over the last scraps of the
Dwarf it has almost finished eating. As the undead
thing advances, your stomach heaves as a wave of its
repulsive stench washes over you. You must subtract
2 from your Attack Strength when fighting the Stench
Ghoul, so powerful is its disgusting odour.

STENCH GHOUL SKILL 8 STAMINA 9

If the Stench Ghoul hits you three times, tum to 398.
If you win, turn to 277,

193
You are half-way towards the archway when you are
stabbed in the back by an invisible opponent! You
must lose 2 STAMINA points, plus 2 more STAMINA
points due to poison: your enemy's blade will inflict
this additional damage from poison for the next three
Attack Rounds if he strikes. While you cannot see
your assailant, you realize too late that he was keeping
watch at the door behind youl

INVISIBLE ASSASSIN SKILL 23 STAMINA 13

IF you win, the limp form of your assassin enemy
reappears as the effects of his Potion of Invisibility
wear off. Exploring his room tums up nothing except
a little food (add 1 to your Provisions}, so you can
either press on towards the archway (turn to 267) or
retreat and return to the main passageway (turn to 308)
194-196

494

You are catight by a posse of militia and dragged off
to jail! Lose « tuck point, Fortunately, they don't
accuse you of murder and you get the impression that
they aren't really too bothered about the grey-robed
men or a dead Dark Elf — but they are very annoyed
that you eluded arrest! The militia are judge and jury
here, and they keep you in prison for a week despite
your protests (add 14 to your Time Track, but at least
you get fed in prison!). Then they kick you oul on to
the streets, but you won't be hunted by the militia in
future. Turn to 387.

195
You judge that you are now standing af a central
intersection of the sewers beneath Carnex. From here,
smaller tunnels lead off to the north-west, north,
north-east and south-west. Follow one of the sewers
which you haven't tried before; in each case, you will
find yourself at a location in the town after you've
pushed up a manhole cover and emerged from the
sewers, Will you go:

North-west? Tum to 175
North? Turn to 57
North-east? Turn to 273
South-west? Tum to 285

196
As you try to force open the heavy door, a large
metal spike springs out of the wall and jabs you in the
leg. You lose 2 sTAMINA points from the spike, and it

197-1908

is also coated with poison, so you must lose a further
4 STAMINA points! You fear there may be more traps
here; return to 234 and choose somewhere else to go,
if you wish to leave. Alternatively, turn to 210 if you
decide to risk it and push open the door anyway.

197

Sneaking up to the tunnel entrance, you press yourself
flat against the rock face on one side, straining to hear.
There is no sound from within, so you dash forward
into the gloom, using your lantem to see by. The
passageway is short and leads at once into a cavern
with a tunnel directly opposite you. A pair of Skeleton
Wartiors in heavy chainmail bar your way; you can
fight them separately in the tunnel.

SKILL STAMINA
First SKELETON WARRIOR 9 6
Second SKELETON WARRIOR 9 6

If you win, you race swiftly through this guard
chamber and down the far passage to a crossroads.
Turn to 323.

198
Nevill looks rather coldly at you. ‘1 wouldn’t mention
Dragons hereabouts if | were you,’ and he looks
around furtively as if expecting something or someone
to leap out of the shadows at him. He pushes you
towards the door of his shop, but not before whisper-
ing, ‘If you're offered help by a Dragon there, it'll
perish if you accept. They're all bound by the Oath,
199-201

you know.’ Then you're out in the street and the door
of the shop slams shut behind you. Will you now:

Shop at the Firewater Emporium? Turn to 37
Buy some supplies? Turn to 373
Relax in the taverns, if you haven't

done so? Tum to 207
Leave Isrnater? Tum to 268

199

If you have a Magic Shield, multiply the Shield Number
by 5 and turn to the paragraph with that number. If
you do not have this, the great reptile breathes out
and you have to take the full effect of a superhealed
incinerating cloud of flame and smoke! Lose 6 STAMINA
points, and now your only option is to rush the
monster, Turn to 29s.

200
Fighting the Mountain Basilisk with your Magic
Mirror, you must subtract 2 from your Attack Strength
each Attack Round. However, before every Altack
Round you should Test the Mountain Basilisk’s Skill! If
you roll 9 or higher with two dice, the Basilisk looks
into the Magic Mirror and will be turned to stone by
its own gaze! If this happens, turn to 188. If you defeat
the Mountain Basilisk normally, turn to $2.

201
You stand in a small, oval-shaped caver: its ceiling is
obscured by mist and two doors stand at opposite
ends of the room where the walls have been chiselled

202~203

and cut into straight lines. Neither door has any
distinguishing marks, but from beneath one you think
you can see wisps of bluish mist gently drifting into
the chamber. Will you open the door with the blue
mist behind it (turn to 326) or the other door (turn to
247)?

202
The Chieftain regards you with a mixture of contempt
and dismissiveness but he does not attack you, "You
are not worthy of anything | might grant you, warrior.
You are not weak, but you are not strong enough.
Begone, and leave me to my peace. If you want to
leave, turn to 332. If you stay, the Chieftain will attack
you, so turn to 254.

203
There are four guards at the gate, and within a few
seconds a dozen reinforcements are surrounding you.
You are overwhelmed and dragged away for sacrifice:
your adventure ends here,

204-205

204
The Frost Giants form a circle round you. Bagghurd’s
doting giantess wife oils his skin while he dons his
heavy battle furs and readies his great axe. The Giants
begin to chant their hero’s name as you square up
against each other. You must call on all your ability if
you are to have any hope of success here! Of course,
you may have a special trick to help you out (you
must have a bottle of firewater left for this trick, of
course). If you have, you know the name of the man
who told you about it; tum his name into a number,
using the following code: A=1, B= 2, C=3...
Z = 26, Double that number and turn to the paragraph
with the same number. Otherwise, fight on!

BAGGHURD SKILL 10 STAMINA 214

If you reduce Bagghurd’s staMINA to 2 points or less,
he surrenders and you are victorious! The Great Jarl
spits at your feet, lifts up the shield and hurls it at you
while his son snivels over the wounds you have
inflicted on him. Turn to 307.

205
Ascending this slimy, slippery incline will be very
difficult indeed. You must Test your Skill twice, adding
2 to the number rolled each time. However, if you
have spiked boots, you need not add 2 to the dice
rolls; if you also have an ice pick, you may subtract 1
from the dice rolls. If you are successful, you ascend
the passageway safely. If you fail, you slither and fall
and must lose 1 STAMINA point through falling back-
wards for some metres, You can Test your Skill as
206

often as you need in order to ascend, but each attempt
you make to climb this passage will add 1 to your
Time Track.

When you reach the top, you are standing in a dank,
chilly chamber with spongy walls, and in front of you
is a door, of sorts. It actually looks more like a valve,
with rubbery flaps which you will have to open,
Above the valve there is a knot of blue-veined, thick,
fibrous tissue which pulses just like the pipes and
tentacles below. You can force open the flap (tum to
362) or plunge a weapon into the knot of tissue,
hoping that this will damage whatever protections the
Night Dragon has in this bizarre place (turn to 379).

206
After descending for some forty metres, the spiral
staircase ends at a landing. A massive stone statue,
resembling a three-metre-high Dwarf with a huge
stone axe, stands in front of the only door in this
chamber; it extends a stone hand towards you, as if
expecting some kind of token or offering. If you have
a dwarven coin, you know the number of the para-
graph where you obtained it. Double that number and

207

turn to the paragraph with the same number. If you
don’t have such a coin, you will have to fight the huge
guardian.

MASSIVE DWARF STATUE sxitLg STAMINA 16

If you win, turn to 130.

207
Ismater’s taverns are much like those anywhere else:
rough, none too clean, with a clientele somewhere
between disreputable and repulsive. You sip your ale
slowly and eat some good home-made pie, meanwhile
listening for any interesting bits of gossip. You don’
overhear anything of note, but a grey-robed man sitting
in the comer of the tavern seems to be keeping 3
watchful eye on you. Looking out of the corner of your
eye, you see that he is lean and dark-haired and has a scar
on his face and a tattoo on one of his forearms. Will you:

Go over and challenge the robed
man? Turn to 257
Go over and talk to the robed man? =Tum to 293

Leave and buy some supplies? Tur to 373
Leave and explore Ismater, if you

haven't done so? Turn to 10
Leave Ismater and head elsewhere? Turn to 268
208-209

208

The other monster has killed two of the sailors, but
the huge furred Sea Serpents’ corpses are now being
dragged aboard and skinned. The fur is largely ruined
from sword and dagger thrusts, but the meat can be
sold, even though it’s as tough as old boots. You
leave the sailors to their messy work and get some
sleep. Add 2 to your Time Track,

In the morning, you must eat another meal. It’s foggy
today, with a creeping sea mist making navigation
difficult, and one or two ice-floes go drifting by as
you peer into the gloom. One particular floe, some
distance away, catches your eye as the mist thins
momentarily; you think you can see a dark shape on
the ice, though you can’t make out any details. If you
want to ignore it, turn to 112. If you want to ask the
captain to let you go over in a rowing-boat and
investigate the object, tum to 394

209
The brewery surprises you when you reconnoitre it. It
looks just like any ordinary brewery, except that many
of the grey-robed men you have noticed spying around
in Carnex are wandering in and out of it. It may well
be that more than the production of fine ale is going
on within the place. You wait until most of the robed
men have disappeared from view then you walk
through the open gate into the back yard of the
brewery. A single grey-robed guard stands at the back
door of the building. If you want to attack him, turn to

210-211

231. If you would rather try to bluff your way past,
turn to 364.

210

Beyond the door with the plaque is a huge chamber
with scores of stone tombs stretching out before you.
In the far distance you think you can just make out
an atchway leading to another chamber; standing
beside it are a pair of skeletal figures, clad in torn chain-
mail and carrying swords and heavy shields. Will you:

Try examining some of the tombs?

Make for the archway?

Leave and open the door opposite, if
you haven't already done so?

Leave and open the door to your
left? Turn to 99

Turn to 249
Turn to 380

Turn to 311

211

You have to face what is only a shadow of your final
enemy on this great quest, but as the huge creature
lunges at you with metre-long teeth and claws it is
still one which inspires terror in you!

DREAM DRAGON SKILL 12 STAMINA 10

If you win, a great sigh resounds round the cavern as
the Dream Dragon fades away into nothingness. Gain
1 LUCK point and, because you have destroyed a part
of the Night Dragon’s strength, make a note that
when you finally meet the Night Dragon you can
subtract 1 from its skitt and 2 from its sTAMINA!
Now you wake up; turn to 281.
212-213

| if ul , ae ? if 4 } Tae After leaving Port Blacksand far behind, days of deter-

fe dU WL alah yyy il ‘ 212
wih : a) aie einer mined marching bring you to the small village of

¥8\\\ wha wi" pei ie et tyr ft Yig) Marzail, just over half-way to Rentarn. You must eat
PRN Dale, te ont "\e three meals from your supply of Provisions during this

it asiancanth ere wert eTreanti oe 41 hu, time and add 6 to your Time Track. In Marzail, there’s
AMI back iN 4 th in at an inn where you can stay and get hot food and a
weiner a eniquin? tig good bed for the night, if you pay 2 Gold Pieces (you

'*
Ly | hy
j

will regain 4 sTAMINA points for this rest), Alterna-
tively, you can sleep outdoors for free (but you regain
no STAMINA points and you must eat another meal).

In the morning, you continue your footslog along
the coast road, which continues along more undulating
terrain. As you get to the crest of one hill, you hear
chanting below! Peering around from behind the cover
of a boulder, you see a group of three grey-cloaked
men walking slowly along the road in front of you;
they are swinging small incense-burners and chanting
as they go. To the east, you can see a plume of smoke
rising from the edge of some pine woods. Will you:

Approach the grey-cloaked men? Turn to 252
Make for the woodland? Turn to 382
Avoid both, detour westwards, then
continue north? Turn to 275
213

The door has been left ajar. You overhear snatches of
conversation: one man saying to another, *. . . berthing
today. Stop him and the fool won't know where to go.

214

It must be done’ You realize they are referring to a
ship that is about to arrive. If you decide to check new
arrivals at the docks, turn to 167. If you want to go on
eavesdropping, turn to 94. If you prefer to enter the
shop, turn to 38.

214

At the final death of the Ancient, a great moan rises
from the depths of the mountain and a wailing sound
flows across the chamber! You hear rumbling coming
from far below; above you, a couple of spear-like
stalactites break from the ceiling scores of metres
above and narrowly miss you. You have time to
perform two actions (eating a meal, drinking liqueur,
or quaffing a Potion of Stamina are your best bets!)
before you must rush to leave the mountain. Your
quest is done, but you still have to get out alive!

You run, like one possessed, through tunnels and
passages, as rocks fall all round you, tentacles explode
from walls and thrash about mindlessly, and gouts of
steaming liquid spurt from broken pipes along the
Dragonspine. You must Test your Skill three times;
each time you fail, you must roll one die, subtracting 4
from the number rolled (to get a number between zero
and 5). This is the number of sTAMINA points you lose
through being sprayed with acid, battered by rocks,
and similar misfortunes — and you cannot stop to
recover lost STAMINA points in any way since the
place is collapsing round you! If you are still alive, turn
to 400.

215-218

215

As you advance on the Chieftain, he raises the point
of his great sword level with your chest and fires a
bolt of crackling magical energy at you! Roll one die
and add 1; the total is the number of sTAMINA points
you lose from this attack. Now you must fight the
advancing undead monster, turn to 254.

216

You know you are about to die, and you cry out for
any help from anyone, or anything, which might be
aware of what is happening to you. If you have a
Magic Shield, divide the Shield Number by 10 and
turn to the paragraph with that number. If you do not
have this item, return to 295 and fight to the death,
though it will probably be your own!

217

The rest of the day is spent marching through the
rocky hills before you find a safe place to sleep. Add 2
to your Time Track and now you must eat a meal.

Next moming you soon find a south-western turn-
ing from your path clearly signposted, ‘CARNEX’. If
you want to make for Carnex, not having been there
already, turn to 8, If you want to press on north-
westwards, turn to 85.

218
You stride along what looks like a long, dark tunnel; a
point of white light at the end grows larger and larger
as you feel yourself being drawn towards it. You feel
219

almost weightless and distinctly disorientated, and you
must subtract 1 from your Attack Strength until you
enter a different-coloured passageway. You ache to
take something of this warm, wonderful light with
you; the airy, immense chamber you are now in seems
welcoming and comforting indeed. You are hardly
surprised at all when you see the ghostly shapes of
friends and members of your family emerging from
the paler glow at the comers of the room — but then
the scene changes! The people's faces are snarling and
filled with hatred for you, and they rush at you with
arms outstretched to rake you with taloned hands,
eager to tear you limb from limb! You can stay and
fight them if you wish (turn to 235), or you can flee
towards a ruby-coloured glow you now see faintly in
the distance (turn to 123).

219
You decide to get as much distance between yourself
and the Frost Giants as possible, in case they turn
hostile You march long and hard right through the
night and into the following day. Add 2 to your Time
Track, and you must eat two meals during this arduous,
prolonged exercise.

The next day, you have a choice of routes to follow
If you wish to make for the town of Ismater, not
having been there before, turn to 322. If you are
heading westwards for the Sword, turn to 2. If you
wish to strike out north-east for the Armour, turn to

17.

220-225

220
If you have a dwarven coin and wish to give it to the
Dwarfs, you know the number of the paragraph where
you found the coin. Triple that number and turn to
that paragraph. If you don’t have this item, or you
don’t want to give it to the Dwarfs, tum to 9.

221
On the other side of this door lies a guardroom with
hard pallet beds, a table and a few chairs, and similar
spartan furnishings. A grey-robed man is lying asleep
at the far end of the room. You see some food on the
table; if you wish to take it, turn to 163. If you prefer
to leave, for fear of waking the sleeping guard, you
can make for the door opposite the one here if you
haven’t done so before (turn to 245) or the one to
your right as you emerge (turn to 341).

222
Using your Potion, you creep up to a pair of Skeleton
Warrior guards in a chamber just beyond the entrance
They do not react to your presence, so you move
quietly past and down a passage opposite the entrance
to a crossroads. Turn to 323.

aa
Attacking the guards is suicidal. Reinforcements arrive
swiftly from the battlements and you run the risk of
being overwhelmed! Test your Luck. If you are Lucky,
you can run away, evading the chasing guards; turn to
75. If you are Unlucky, they overpower you and your
adventure ends here!
Sa aa
= . ay > we a
Be tk N Mine Mes

Yee TY {eWay

224-225

224
The Skeletons attack, and you must fight them together.

SKILL STAMINA
First SKELETON WARRIOR 8 6
Second SKELETON WARRIOR 8 6

When you reduce the sTAMINA of one of these Skel-
eton Warriors to zero or below, however, your fight
isn’t over. The Skull of each continues to fight! It rises
into the air from the scattered pile of bones and flies at
you, the jawbone gaping in a hideous parody of a grin
so as to be able to bite you with greater effect! Only
when you have destroyed the Skulls as well will your
fight be over.

SKILL STAMINA
First FLYING SKULL & 4
Second FLYING SKULL 8 5

If you win, tum to 87.

225
In the room you find a gruesome cupboard which
contains rows of reptiles’ brittle skulls, elongated like
those of Stalkers you have seen. From the room to
your right, you glimpse red robes; there is clearly
226—228

someone in there — perhaps a wizard, judging by the
flash of glassware you think you saw in his hand — so
you close the cupboard quietly. You can wedge the
door shut if you like; use an ice pick for this, or jam a
crossbow into the doorframe (this will ruin the bow,
however). Will you now:

Enter the room containing the red-

robed figure? Turn to 154.
Peek round the half-open door? Tum to 331
Leave quietly and explore somewhere

else? Tum to 308

226
No one wishes to talk about the men in grey, but
some dark, hooded eyes are watching you ... Add 1
to your Nemesis score. You have to continue looking
for either a place named Endimion (turn to 352) or a
person with that name (turn to 272).

227
Returning to the ground, will you:

Untie the Ogre’s sack, if you haven't

done so? Turn to 375
Enter the red tree door? Tum to 123
Enter the yellow passage? Turn to 292

228
You push open the door and stride forward; no point
in being subtle now, you decide. You have entered a
large chamber which has a doorway on your right
and, much further along on the left-hand wall, an

229-230

archway which opens directly into another chamber, A
rosy glow comes from the archway, and you feel heat
emanating from there even where you are standing,
some twenty metres away. Will you open the door
(turn to 43) or go to the archway (turn to 193)?

229

You intone a formula from the book, and the runes on
the door in front of you glow with magical light then
dim; tum to 388, and you may ignore the instructions
in that paragraph concerning sx1t loss!

230

Getting in an effective shot against the cocooned
creature will not be easy. If you are prepared to use up
two of your actions, one of your shots will be success-
ful and you may deduct 2 points from the sTAMINA
score of the Night Dragon’s skull when it rises. If you
are unwilling to do this, return to 98. If you use up
two actions here, decide on your other two, If they
include drinking a Potion of Invisibility, turn to 253.
Otherwise, turn to 306.
231-233

251
Fortunately for you, this outside guard is a mute,
unable to cry out for help when you attack! However,
his disability is compensated for by his great strength,
and he will not be an easy opponent to overcome as
his shortsword arcs through the air at you!

GREY ASSASSIN SKILL 9
If you win, turn to 151

STAMINA 10

252
Back in the main passageway, you can take the side-
tuming to your left (turn to 342) or descend the
spiral staircase (tum to 206), or you can descend the
stone steps, if you haven't already done so (turn to
296).

233
‘Let us be gone now,’ says the cat, and the Loremaster’s

home vanishes before you even have time to say good-
bye.

234-235

You find yourself standing on a frozen plain, staring at
a distant range of vast, craggy mountain peaks. “You'll
know how to get there, trust me,’ says the cat. ‘Best
of luck. Rather you than me, I must say, but then
you're the hero and I’m just a cat, aren’t I?’ Leaving
you with that faintly troubling thought, the cat simply
disappears. Turn to 289.

234
The plaque’s runes and symbols are indecipherable to
you unless you have the Tome of the Reaches. If you do
have this book, tum to the paragraph with the same
number as the first page which tells you about Ward
Runes. If you don’t have the book, you must open a
door here; will it be:

The door with the plaque? Turn to 196
The door opposite the one you

entered by? Tur to 99
The door opposite the one with the

plaque? Tum to 314

235
This combat will be grim indeed. Each time you are
235

struck by the Wraith Horde, you must Test your Skill.
If you fail, you will lose 1 pomt of skit in addition to
the damage to your sTAMINA caused by the blows;
your lost skiLL will return to you only when you
awaken!

WRAITH HORDE SKILL 9

If you win, the bright glow in this chamber flares so
intensely that you are forced to close your eyes for an
instant; when you re-open them, you see that a small
glass sphere has appeared out of nowhere and is
bobbing in mid-air in front of you. Looking at it
closely, you see that it is a multifaceted gem — it has
244 facets, to be exact (make a note of this as the
Sphere Number). The Sphere of Light will glow gently
when you so command; if you lose your lantern, the
Sphere will light your way in darkened places. It also
has power against the Night Dragon itself. You will
be instructed as to the Sphere’s use when you meet
the Ancient! Now, it is time to follow one of the
passageways which you can see in the distance; will
it be:

STAMINA 14

The red passage? Turn to 123
The silver passage? Turn to 146
The blue passage? Turn to 56

236-237

236
You can buy the following items in Rentarn:

Steel mirror 4 Gold Pieces
Longbow and arrows 5 Gold Pieces
Rope 1 Gold Piece
Glass bottle 1 Gold Piece
Spiked boots 4 Gold Pieces

Ice pick 3 Gold Pieces
Extra Provisions 1 Gold Piece each
Flask of Walrus Oil 2 Gold Pieces

When you've completed your purchases, amend your
Adventure Sheet accordingly. Now, will you make for
the Rudderless Galley tavern, if you haven’t been
there before (turn to 286), or leave Rentarn, if you've
already slept and rested here (turn to 178)?

237
You wait in the relative coolness of the room adjacent
to the furnace chamber, and after a while the surging
flame seems to die down a little; add 1 to your Time
Track. If you have a Magic Mirror with you, and if
your HONOUR score is 2 or higher, divide the Mirror
Number by 4 and turn to the paragraph with that
number. If you’ do not have the mirror, or if your
HONOUR score is 1 or below, turn to 308.
238-239

238

You push open the creaking green door of the shop
with some trepidation. There’s a confusion of rubbish
inside: stuffed animal heads and rugs hang from the
walls, sacks of grubby grain are stacked haphazardly
against one another, and shelves are packed with glass
bottles containing rather disgusting things in coloured
fluids. It looks, and smells, as if no one has cleaned the
place for a decade or two, A shuffling sound comes
from behind the counter, and a wizened, little, middle-
aged man with lank, greasy hair and a pair of pince-
nez glasses perched on top of his huge beaky nose
peers anxiously up at you from his perch on a five-
legged footstool. ‘Erm, Nevill’s the name. Can I pos-
sibly be of some assistance?’ You mutter something
about his shop sign, still trying to take in the contents
of this weird shop. ‘Ah, erm, yes, well, it's Nevill, that’s
my name. Oh yes. Says “evil”, does it? Letters flake
off, you know, must get it repainted sometime.’ The
little man’s demeanour suddenly changes to one of
alertness. ‘I’ve got no time to spare, young fellow,’ he
says testily. ‘Got any gold, eh? Got some things might
interest an adventurer like yourself!’ The curious little
man brings out trays of bizarre ornaments and rubbish
and rummages in sackfuls of detritus, but most of what
he has is useless. However, there are some exceptions.
Turn to 106.

239
Not greatly refreshed by your sleep this bitterly cold
night, you continue your journey next moming and at
midday you find yourself on top of a rocky outcrop,
240

looking down at a Frost Giant herding some goats in a
shallow valley below. The fur-clad Giant stands some
six metres tall, and his stone axe may be crude but it’s
probably bigger than you are. He’s sitting with his
back to you, eating one of the goats, so you could
probably surprise him with a sneak rear attack if you
want to (tum to 134). If you would rather try talking
with him, turn to 15%. If you want to ignore him and
sneak past him and on eastwards, turn to 371

240

The Dragon speaks to you as you wheel through the
skies. ‘The Ancient has one great weakness, Light will
blind and distract him, if you can find magical light to
fling into his face. The greatest of all magical treasures
the Loremaster can guide you to is the Magic Mirror
within the Dreamtime. Make sure you find this; your
quest will be far harder without it. If the Mirror calls
for sacrifice on your part, do not deny it.’

Hours pass and the Dragon finally lands at your
chosen destination, But just as he does so, he gives a
terrible cough and chokes on his own blood as you
stagger away, horrified at his convulsions. The Dragon
has broken the Oath by giving you aid, and as a result
he is dying, This event will be sensed far away . . . add
1 to your Nemesis score. Now, which destination did
you choose? If you chose to be taken to the sword,
turn to 212. If you chose to be taken to the armour,
turn to 5. If you chose to be taken to the shield, the
Dragon has taken you most, but not all, of the great
distance to it; turn to 334.

241-242

241

If you are wearing grey robes, the statues will not
attack you when you approach the vault; turn to 273
IF you are not wearing grey robes, the statues will
raise their stony weapons and attack you — and, by ill-
fortune, a black-robed man emerges from the vault at
this very moment, The alarm is raised, and you have
to flee! Trying to escape the town, you must Test
your Luck, If you are Lucky, you manage to get away,
but you must roll two dice and total the numbers
rolled; this is the number of sTAMINA points you lose
from arrow shots and crossbow bolts fired at you by
guards as you flee. If you are still alive, turn to 75. If
you are Unlucky, you will be captured and sacrified, so
your adventure ends here! If you have a Potion of
Invisibility, however, you can escape automatically by
drinking it, without losing any sTAMINA points; turn
to 75.

24.2
Beware! The mine shaft here was an experimental
excavation and the pit props have all but rotted away
with age. This mine shaft looks very hazardous indeed.
243-244

If you want to turn back and try somewhere else, add
1 to your Time Track and tum to 391. If you want to
continue despite the obvious hazards, turn to 265.

243
You have reached the heart of the maze, and there are
two possible ways out of here. Before you is another
of the oddly-walled passages; it is brownish-black in
colour and rises gradually up, twisting around at the
top of the maze, Directly above you is a small aperture
in the tissue of the ceiling, and you can see faint blue
and yellow lights twinkling beyond that hole. If you
want to follow the twisting passageway, tum to 53. If
you want to ascend to the hole above you, you think
you can get enough grip on the walls here to ascend
safely; tum to 144.

You hurl the glowing Sphere at the Night Dragon’s
eyes, and it reels back from the blinding light with a
howl of rage! You gain one free attack on the creature,
and you may subtract x from its Attack Strength for the
first five Attack Rounds of this combat. Return to 295.

245-246

245

You open the door very slightly; inside you see two
grey-robed men at work over great vats of steaming
liquid, with a black-robed man supervising them. He
soon leaves, setting off down a spiral staircase at the
far side of the room, leaving the grey men to their
labour. One of them breaks off chunks of a biscuity
substance and crumbles it into the vats while the other
grins. You catch fragments of conversation; ‘That'll do
it ... the High Priest says this drug is perfect, they'll
be slaves soon... slave army’s needed to move some-
thing ... in the towers, I shouldn't be surprised.’ You
don’t know what they‘re talking about, but you make
a note not to eat any biscuits you may find and to
stay well clear of the beer! Now, will you:

Enter this room and attack the men? Turn to 327
Enter this room and try to bluff your

way through? Turn to 287
Try the door opposite the one you
entered the brewery by? Tum to 341

Try the door opposite you, if you

haven't done so before? Turn to 221

246
On a chill, grey day you trudge round the town
asking for Endimion and again getting no helpful
response; late in the aftemoon you see a grey-robed
figure disappearing in through the back door of a
leather tanner’s workshop. If you want to follow the
man, tum to 213. Otherwise, that’s the end of this
day; you can spend the next one asking for a person
247-248

named Endimion (tum to 272) or for a place with that
name (turn to 352).

247
The door gives way even as you touch it and flies
backwards, revealing a yawning abyss of howling cold
beyond! Skeletal arms and clawed hands sprout from
the stone walls round you, pushing and dragging you
into the certainty of death. Test your Skill, adding 3 to
the number rolled on the dice — and, if you fail this
test, your adventure ends here! If you wish, you may
spend LucK points to modify the dice roll. You may
spend up to 3 points of Luck, and for each point spent
you can subtract 1 from the total rolled on the dice
(but you must decide to do this before you roll the
dice!). If you are successful, you extricate yourself from
the trap and flee to the other door here; tum to 326.

248
You demand that the Red Wizard tell you all he
knows, and you may spare him. Rushing his words, the
terrified man says that he is in charge of the Dragon-
spine, as this level of the mountain is called. He tends
the furnace, back down the corridor, and the strange
tentacles and tendrils in this room, ‘They radiate along
the pipes, throughout the Dragonspine. The furnace
feeds them, and the alchemical preparations | make
here also toughen the Ancient One. Everything is
drawn into Nightskull above, where the Ancient is.
Look, spare me, please. I was brought here as a
prisoner, I'm not a servant of evil.’ He begins to sniffle
and sob. You don't believe him for a moment; his lying

249

eyes never meet yours, although you suspect there’s
some truth in what he has told you about the mountain.
Then a crafty look crosses his face and he says, If you
fought your way in here, | may be able to get out,
since you've killed the guards. Just let me take the few
Gold Pieces I've got feft and I'll tell you everything
else: | know about what lies at the top of the mountain
Is it a deal?’ If you agree to this, turn to 326. If you
decide to kill him, which will be a sure way to prevent
hirn raising the alarm, turn to 283, If you decide to tie
him up, gag him and leave him here, turn to 124.

249

You prise open the lid of a tomb, and a pair of skeletal
hands immediately reach up out of the darkness and
make a grab for your throat! You manage to fight off
the skeleton inside and slam the lid down, but not
before you have lost 4 points from your sTAMINA
through its attacks. Lose 1 point of HONOUR; you're
not here to rob tombs! Now the Skeletons in the
distance are marching towards you and you are forced
to fight; turn to 224.

i

A ea

wyT

TIVNTINT PEP ee TPs

Th

je AAV

Sd

250-251

250
You open the door to the Jarl’s cabin and see among a
pile of trophies the shield you have come for —
lacquered white, with a blue chevron and a black
dragon motif. You grab the shield and mm as fast as
you can, but you have one problem. While your
Potion prevents Giants from seeing you, it doesn’t
prevent their blood-crazed, slavering Snow Wolves
from smelling you out! If you have some Catstink, you
can throw the beasts off the scent; turn to 307, If you
do not have this, two of them are upon you right
now! You must fight them together

SKILL STAMINA
First SNOW WOLF 8 8
Second SNOW WOLF 8 8

if you win, turn to 307.

251

The Harlequin’s odd jesting and riddling is too difficult
for you — you are a warrior, not an expert on the
obscure and the trivial! You are angry at his taunts
and challenge him to a fight for the boots. ‘Ah! A man
of violence!’ he smirks. ‘Know that I have the beating
of you,’ he warns ominously as he rises to his feet
You see that he is lithe, very lean and supple and,
while he doesn’t look tough, you guess that he will
be very hard to hit. If you decide that you don’t wish
to fight after all, and you admit defeat, the Harlequin
will dismiss you and send you back to where you
came from; tum to 20. If you wish to fight, draw your
weapon and do your best!
252-254
HARLEQUIN SKILL £3 STAMINA 10
If you win, turn to 305.

252

You run to catch up with the men, who seem happy
enough to share yout company along the road. They
are pilgrims, they say, heading for a northem temple
to gain learning. They are quiet, hard-faced men and
they soon return to their dirge-like chanting. However,
they share a little food with you at the end of the
day’s walk, and you prepare to sleep out under the
stars in this strange company. Test your Luck. If you
are Lucky, turn to 55. If you are Unlucky, turn to 119.

253
Unfortunately, the Night Dragon can automatically
detect invisible creatures with its magical vision. You
gain no advantage by drinking this Potion, but you
have wasted one action. Decide the action or actions
left open to you. If they include using a longbow or
crossbow, turn to 230. Otherwise, turn to 306.

254
The undead Chieftain rises up and advances upon you.
His great sword is a powerful weapon; if he has an
Attack Strength of 20 or better in any Attack Round,
and if this is higher than your Attack Strength, a blow
from this sword will cause you to lose 3 points of
STAMINA rather than the usual 2.

UNDEAD CHIEFTAIN — sxitr 11 STAMINA 12

255-256

If you win, you can take the bejewelled chain from
round his neck; it is worth 10 Gold Pieces (you can
sell it for this in any town, if you get the opportunity}.
The two-handed sword, however, is very heavy and
badly balanced in your hands, and you really would
not be able to swing it effectively, so you do not take
it. Searching the tombs here might prove to be very
dangerous after this tough fight, so you leave the
tomb rooms and return to the antechamber. Turn to
332.

255
You wait for some time until you hear the heavy
footsteps of a frustrated and angry Ogre receding, into
the distance. Add 1 to your Time Track then you
descend, You can now enter the red passage through
the tree door (turn to 125) or the yellow passage (tum
to 29a).

256

It you have already met the Loremaster, it is time to
face the Night Dragon; you know which paragraph to
tum to! Otherwise, you are startled to find a large,
purring, golden-ginger cat sitting at your feet — and
even more startled when it starts to talk to you! ‘Killed
the High Priest, hmmm? Not a bad start at all. You
could go far, you know, Oh, stop gawping at me. It's
time you got some real help on this quest. Come on;
time grows shart and the Ancient grows. stronger
every day. Let’s be off’ The world grows opaque and
hazy round you as you feel yourself slipping away to
somewhere entirely unknown .. . turn to 266.
257-258

257

Drawing your weapon, you advance on the grey-robed
man, but two heavily built ruffians step into your path.
‘We don’t have any trouble in here,’ one of them says
as he looks down at you. It’s easy for him to look
down on you, since he’s built like an Ogre. The entire
tavern is staring at you, and word of your foolhardiness
is going to get around. Add 1 to your Nemesis score
As you back away, the robed man slips out by a side-
door and is gone. Lose 1 LUCK point. Now, will you:

Leave and buy some supplies? Turn to 373
Leave and explore Ismater, if you

haven't done so? Turn to 10
Leave ]smater and head elsewhere? Turn to 268

258
You make camp for the night, Add 2 to your Time
Track, and you must now eat a meal. You know that
your fate will soon be upon you, and your sleep is
uneasy, Still you wake up just before dawn, and before
the sun has risen in the sky you stand a half-kilometre
away from a single tunnel entrance beneath a huge
mountain which, curiously, is not ice-capped, unlike
the others here. You simply know this must be the
Night Dragon’s lair; but what will befall you within,
no one can know! If you have a Potion of Invisibility
and wish to use it to get past the entrance tunnel, you
know the name of the person who sold it to you
Convert his name into a number using the code A=
1, B=2, C=3 .... Z=26, then add them together.
Triple that total and turn to the paragraph with that

259-260

number, Alternatively, you can make a direct approach
to the tunnel entrance (turn to 197) or search around
in the general area of the entrance, although this will
be time-consuming (turn to 294).

259
Exploring the iron mines, roll one die; you may add 1
to this die roll if you spend a point of tuck to do so.
If you roll a 5 or 6, turn to 319; if you roll any other
number, tum to 391.

260

You haggle and bargain for the shield, saying it will
help you in a quest against a great evil which will
otherwise destroy the land. That doesn’t impress the
Great Jar] at all. All he wants to know is what you're
going to give him for the shield. After much prolonged
haggling, in which he has an advantage since you
have to be deferential to him, you must offer him the
following: 10 Gold Pieces, one magical item (a Potion
of Luck or Stamina counts as a magical item) and two
bottles of firewater. If you're prepared to give up all
these items for the shield, you must have them all. If
you do, you know how many degrees proof the
firewater is; multiply that number by three and turn to
the paragraph with the same number. If you don't
have all these items to give, or if you aren't prepared
to give them up, the Great Jarl won't give you
the shield. You can try to issue a challenge if you
wish (turn to 111) or leave the camp and try to
think up some other plan for getting the shield (tum
to 298)
261-262

261

Three grey-robed men are standing in the room and a
body lies slumped on the bed; the window to the
docks beyond is open. The men have coshes and
knives, and they’ve been expecting you. They are all
dark-haired and have an evil glint in their eyes; as one
of them slams the door shut behind you, you know
you're going to be lucky to survive this! You can fight
them one at a time in this enclosed space as you back
into a comer of the room.

SKILL STAMINA
First ASSASSIN 8 7
Second ASSASSIN 8 &
Third ASSASSIN 8 &

lf you win, you turn over the body on the bed; it is
that of a Dark EIf, presumably the person you were
expecting to meet. His throat has been crushed, and
he’s beyond help. Frantically searching his body, you
find 3 Gold Pieces and a silver plaque clutched in one
hand with a single word hastily carved into it: ‘Endi-
mion’. Outside the door there’s a commotion; someone
is banging on it, asking what's been going on. Will
you:

Open the door? Turn to 30

Search the bodies of your attackers? Turn to 83

Leave through the open window? Turn to 109
262

The spiral staircase rises many scores of metres and,
unfortunately for you, it’s a trap. You are half-way up
263

the steps when they all suddenly retract, leaving the
stairwell as a lethally slippery helter-skelter ride back
to the bottom. You tumble over and over, battering
yourself against the walls, and land heavily in a crum-
pled heap at the foot of the stairs. Deduct 6 from your
STAMINA. Just as bad, if you are still alive you think
you can hear a dull booming sound coming from
above and slightly to your right, as if some alarm had
been sounded. Add 2 to your Nemesis score. Choose
a door which you have not yet opened; as you look
down the corridor from the opposite end to that you
entered by, will it be:”

The nearest door? Tum to 299
The middle door? Tum to 183
The furthest door? Turn to 389

263

Before you can force the portcullis open, the door in
the distance splinters as axe blades smash through it,
and a horde of skeletons force it open. They come
charging along the passage, wielding swords, axes,
even halberds to strike you down! You can fight them
as if they were two groups of monsters in this passage-
way, one group at a time.

SKILL STAMINA
First SKELETON HORDE 7 11
Second SKELETON HORDE 8 10

If you win, you find nothing of value on the skeletons
or in their empty guard chamber along the passage.
There is nothing for you to do but force the portcullis

264

open, and it’s hard work! Add 1 to your Time Track.
Eventually you manage to escape, and it’s time to
explore elsewhere. Turn to 182.

264
‘There is still a place you might consider going to before
you assault the lair of the Night Dragon himself. The
town of Carnex lies west of the Dragon Conclave, and a
cult of the Night Dragon has arisen there. The High
Priest lives in a great tower to the north of the town, and
he has used magic and drugged food and drink to enslave
its inhabitants. Some are sacrificed in dread temples,
others will be used to form the basis of an undead army in
the service of the Dragon. The place is a den of evil.
There is a magical book there, the Tome of the Reaches,
which will be helpful to you in the Dragon’s lair, for it
contains much lore on the runes of Dragonkind and the
magic they contain within them, Carnex is a dangerous
and evil place, but you could achieve much good there.’

If you decide to make for Camex, tum to 34%. If
you prefer to challenge the Night Dragon at once,
since a detour to Camex will use up more precious
time, turn to 233.
265-266

265

Test your Skill, If you are successful, you manage to
avoid a minor roof collapse, although you do get hit
by some falling rocks; lose 2 sTAMINA points. If you
are unsuccessful, you get hammered by a deluge of
collapsing rocks and ore. Roll two dice and add their
totals; you lose that many sTAMINA points, plus 1
point from your skILL because your swordarm is badly
damaged by a heavy rock landing right on it. But you
may find your enemy here: roll one die. If you roll a 1
or 2, turn to 3427 {you can subtract 1 from the number
rolled on the die if you spend a point of Luck to do
so). If you roll any other number, turn to 391

266
You rise from your knees, groggy and giddy from the
effects of the powerful magic which has brought you
here. Your feline companion is sitting at the other side of
a large study, reading a small leather-bound tome. Seated
behind a grand mahogany desk and looking at you
quizzically is a slim, tall, young man with a well-groomed
black beard and piercing, steely-blue eyes. He puts down
aheavy crystal ball and looks you over appraisingly. ‘So,
this is the hero come to save Allansia,’ he says drily.
‘You'd better come with me. This way.’ You hardly have
time to take in the clutter of books, charts, glowing magic
and Cheelah knows what else in this room before your
host has taken you by the hand and guided you through
a door to a dining room. The man introduces himself as
the Loremaster, and he dismisses any questions you may
have by plying you with food and sparkling spring water
while he tells you why you have been brought here. The

267

refreshment has a wonderful effect on you: restore your
STAMINA and Luck to their Initial values! You are only
too ready to listen to the blue-robed savant tell you how
he may be able to help you. Tum to 393.

;
\
ie }
> pe |
—_- !
fa ~
a , ?

Boies
ah sear /,

267

Peering carefully round the archway, you are sickened
by an awful sight before you: two iron-clad and
glowing, skeletal, Dragon-like forms are standing in
front of a furnace, heavy shovels in their hands. Extra-
ordinarily, the furnace looks as if it is sculpted from
huge; stone-coated bone, although no normal bone
could withstand the white heat of the flames within.
Even more oddly, the ribcage-like furnace wall seems
to be pulsing, as if inhaling and exhaling! You don’t
want to think about what is burning in the furnace,
and you can’t see what the creatures here use for fuel.
They do not appear to have seen you, so you can
leave and return to the main passage, if you wish (turn
to 308), or enter and attack them (turn to 351).
268-270

268
Add 2 to your Time Track for time spent in the
village. If you have not yet been to the Dragon
Conclave, you must do so now; march off east-north-
eastwards and turn to 23. Otherwise, you must march
on to a location you haven't visited before; add 2 to
your Time Track. Will you journey:

Eastwards to the lands of the Frost

Giants? Turn to 334
North then north-east to Slate Peak? Turn to 217
South then west to the Mist Crypts? Tum to 3

269
The monster shrieks in agony as you sever its hand
and snatch the amulet! Now you must escape swiftly.
The monster gains a free attack upon your back (lose 2
STAMINA points), but you get to the door of your
choosing; turn to 312.

A Dwarf chieftain accepts your gift and says it was
minted a century before even he was born. The Dwarfs
are delighted to have it back, and in return they give
you a Potion of Stamina. You can drink this at any
time (except during a combat), and it will restore lost

271-272

STAMINA points up to one-half of your Initial sTAMINA
score (round fractions up). Turn to 9.

271
You are at the base of the great stone steps, your feet
on the hard, bony terrain of the Night Dragon’s
infernal lair. The Night Dragon’s clawed forelimbs
wave jerkly as it summons the energy for another
spell. It wreathes itself in dark shadows and flickering
shades, and this obscurity will make it difficult to see
and hit effectively. Unless you can counter this effect
by using a Sphere of Light, whenever you win an
Attack Round against the Night Dragon you must roll
one extra die; if you roll a 6, your blow will strike this
shadow-magic surrounding the monster, inflicting no
damage to its stAMINA! Worse still, the horror is now
about to breathe on you as it clears its mucus-filled,
drooling throat! Will you:

Stand your ground? Tum to 199
Use a longbow or crossbow and fire

at the Dragon? Turn to 149
Throw acid at the Dragon, if you

have any? Turn to 82
Rush the monster? Turn to 4

272
You spend a wasted day asking around for a person
with the name of Endimion, but all the people you
question shake their heads and go about their business
and you get nowhere. If you want to spend another
day trying this same strategy, tum to 246. Alterna-
273-274

tively, you could try looking for a place called Endimion
(turn to 352) or start asking questions about the grey-
robed men, if you haven't already done so (tum fo
226),

473

You appear to be alone inside a huge crypt complex.
Many small sets of steps descend to side-vaults, so
that simply exploring the place takes quite a while.
Add i to your Time Track. The only other exit
appears to be a spiral staircase leading down to a lit
passageway, but lurking beside the staircase are two
pools of darkness which are certainly not natural
shadows. They hover in the air and, as you approach,
they seem to expand slightly in size. When you are
some five metres away, they rush together instantane-
ously and form a single, spectral, shadowy form which
glides towards you; now you can feel the magical cold
of the Chillshadow! If you have a Magic Sword, turn
to 13, If you do not have a Magic Sword, you cannot
harm this being. You lose 6 sTAMINA points from its
attacks as you flee; if you survive, turn to 75.

274
The expressionless Juggernaut tums to meet you as
you race down the stairs and across the chamber. Its
enormous ‘feet’ seern to glide across the room as you
approach it and it attacks you with heavy stone fists
and a combination bite and head butt; whatever it hits
you with, you're going to get hit hard (you will lose 3
STAMINA points from each blow of this monstrosity).
Worse still, if the Stone Juggernaut has an Attack

275

Strength of 23 in any Attack Round (even if this is
lower than your Attack Strength), it will hit you,
knock you down and stamp on you for a total of 6
points of damage!

STONE JUGGERNAUT — sxitt11 —s STAMINA 18

If you win, and if your HONOUR score is 1 or higher,
do you have a Magic Mirror? If you have, triple the
Mirror Number and turn to that paragraph. If you do
not have the Magic Mirror, or if your HONOUR score
is zero or below, leave and tur to 67.

275

Add 2 to your Time Track for the day’s travel] before
you turn in for the night. In the morning, you set off
along the northerly coastal road once more. You
should make it to Rentarn by the end of the day, you
hope; but you must eat another meal now. After two
hours or so, you spot a body slumped on the ground
in the road ahead of you. It could be a trap, so you're
wary. Will you investigate the body (tum to 3) or
make a detour round it and push on to Rentarn (turn
to 304)?

276-277

276

Across the ledge, a shadowy figure is materializing out
of the thick blue mist: a wraith-form, shrouded in a
silvered black cape, half substance and half ghost,
gripping a black, iron-tipped staff! You can perform
two actions before it is ready to ight you; you cannot
harm it until it has fully materialized. Eating a meal,
drinking a Potion, drawing a charge from a Magic
Mirror (if you have one) or using some other magical
item: each comprises one action. Decide what you're
going to do, and then ready yourself for combat! The
materialized Wizard-Wraith which stands before you is
a terrifying opponent. For the first four Attack Rounds,
he will try to strike you with his staff. If he has the
higher Attack Strength, he will discharge a vicious
electrical shack into you, using up the magic of his fell
weapon, and you must lose 4 sTAMINA points, After-
wards, the Wizard-Wraith will rend at you with his
bony, talon hands; these blows inflict the usual 2
points of damage to your STAMINA.

WIZARD-WRAITH SKILL 10 STAMINA 14

If you win, the Wizard-Wraith may have drained some
of your SKILL. If he struck you with his claws (a hit
from his staff will not have this effect), roll one die. If
you roll 1-4, the chill of his touch has drained 2 point
of skitt from you. Turn to 81

277
You pick up 3 Gold Pieces from the floor, and within
the Ghoul’s Jair you find some items the creature has
taken from victims it has slain and eaten — a rope, an
278

empty glass bottle, and a bottle of dark reddish brown
liquid with a torn label on which you can just make
out the words, ‘Larssen’s Firewater, Brewed in
Isma ’. Extracting the cork and sniffing the
liquid tells you that it’s a very, very potent brandy,
and if you drink it you'll find it hard to put one foot in
front of the other! You take these items. There’s no
other way out of the Ghoul’s lair, so you retrace your
steps; turn to 332.

278

Most of the Stalker-Mage’s apparel, equipment and
the like is evil, fouled with rotting flesh, and the
chamber itself is peculiar, containing many knobbled
and sinuous growths of tissue and thick cords sheathed
in fibrous material. In one cup-shaped growth you find
a small quantity of a smoking liquid which is clearly
acidic. If you have a glass bottle, you can take some of
this organic acid if you wish. However, time spent
here is spent at a cost: when you meet the Night
Dragon, you must add 1 to its STAMINA score, since it
is now beginning to awaken swiftly as you cut a
swathe through its home and protectors! Turn to 48

279-280

279

Lord Azzur’s militia have no real interest in thieves,
but you've certainly caused a rumpus so they escort
you to the Watch-house. They detain you for hours,
interrogate you over and over again, then extract 3
Gold Pieces from you for wasting their time! Add 1 to
your Time Track; if you had no money for your bail,
they detain you overnight and make you slop out the
cells in the moming (so you must add an extra 1 to
your Time Track). When they release you, you can
make for Lobster Wharf (turn to 354) or Weaver Gate
(turn to 212),

280

You manage to prise open the lock, and the first
object you grab from the chest is a sleek Jeather bag.
This contains 4 Gold Pieces, but it is also magical, This
bag can carry weight, up to a certain limit, without
weighing you down! With this bag, your normal
maximum number of Provisions carried is not the
281-282

usual 12 but is increased to 17, since the bag can
contain 5 units of Provisions and still be weightless!
Gain 1 Luck point for this fortunate find. You also
find a vial of tattooing ink and a needle here, and a
note which reads: ‘Increase the frequency of the Watch.
You must procure further sacrifices so that | can create
further Stalkers, we must slay the idiot the Dark Elf
messenger recruited in Blacksand. Obey me, or the
breath of the Ancient will be sure to fall upon yout"
The note bears a signature which it is very difficult to
make out. If you have a viewing lens, tum to 114. If
you don’t have this, tum to 131.

281
‘Well, then,’ the Loremaster says grimly, ‘there is much
for you to do yet!’ If you have the Magic Shield,
Magic Armour and Magic Sword you sought, or if
you have two of these and failed to obtain the other,
turn to 301. If you still seek at least one of them, turn
to Bg.

282
The Stone Dwarf is a dangerous enemy. Each Attack
Round, if his Attack Strength is three or more points
higher than yours, you break your weapon striking the
petrified body of your enemy. If you do this, any
blow you strike subsequently can inflict only 1 point
of damage to the Dwarf's sTAMINA.

STONE DWARF SKILL 8

If you win, you can take some weapons which may be
of use to you. The crossbows look very frail with age,

STAMINA 10

283

but you may take one if you wish to, together with
some crossbow bolts. You can also take either of the
two swords; one is a normal sword, which is no better
than the one you have (unless you broke your origina!
sword against the Stone Dwarf), The other is a Magic
Sword, and it adds : to your Attack Strength in
combats — with one exception. It has a special magical
flaw in its design, so that if you use it to fight any
human opponents, you must subtract 1 from your
Attack Strength! Decide which sword you wish to
take, if either.

Now, do you want to open the door opposite, if you
haven't already done so (turn to 80), or make your
way back up the stone steps (turn to 232)?

283
Although the Red Wizard is very evil, killing him in
cold blood is dishonourable: it is an evil act. Lose 1
point of HoNouR and gain 1 Nemesis point. Now you
may search his laboratory; turn to 76.
284-286

284

You wake up from an uneasy sleep at the sound of a
footfall close by; gain 1 tuck point for this good
fortune! Looking around while still feigning sleep, you
see a hunched, cowled figure creeping across the cold
ground towards you, its breath frosting in the chill of
the icy night, Moonlight gleams on the white, reptilian
head of the creature and it draws a long curved knife
from the folds of its cloak: black fluid drips from the
blade gripped in its scaly claws as it creeps ever doser
You leap up with a weapon to defend yourself against
the Stalker which has been sent to slay you! The
White Stalker will use its poisoned weapon against
you for the first three Attack Rounds; if it strikes you,
you lose 2 stamina points from the knife wound and
2 further sTAMINA points from the poison, After three
Attack Rounds, the venom will have dripped from the
blade.

WHITE STALKER SKILL 9g

If you win, you snatch what little sleep your frayed
nerves will allow you this night; turn to 239,

STAMINA 11

285
You push up the manhole cover and find yourself in
the backyard of a brewery. There are a couple of
taverns near by, so you could make for them (tim to
142) or enter the open back door of the brewery (turn
to 152).

286
The sign of the Rudderless Galley swings, creaking, to

287-288

and fro in the north wind. Approaching the dockside
tavern past the alleys and byways, you thought you
saw a grey-robed man duck into the shadows just
before you reached the tavern door, or was it just a
trick of the light? You push past the seamen and
merchants inside the tavern. walk across the sawdust
floor to the stairway and climb as far as the landing.
You make your way to the third door along, as
instructed, and take the silver key from your pocket.
Test your Skill. If you are successful, turn to 261. If you
fail, turn to 314.

387
You stroll nonchalantly past the two men working at
the vats; however, if you are not wearing grey robes
they will attack you; tum to 3a7 but disregard the
instructions in that paragraph concerning bow shots! If
you are wearing grey robes, the men let you pass;
regain z point of Luck! Turn to 347.

288
A full day’s marching brings you to a parting of the
289-290

ways along the trail, and here you make camp and
rest. Add 2 to your Time Track; you must now eat a
meal. If you now wish to follow a south-westerly path
leading to the Mist Crypts, add 4 to your Time Track
and turn to 21. Alternatively, you could take the trail
westwards, signposted to Carnex, if you haven't been
there before (turn to 32).

289
When you have a chance to check the contents of
your backpack, you find that the Loremaster’s magic
has replenished it for you during your magical journey
here: you now have a full supply of Provisions with
you! Now you must head north to the final, desperately
dangerous nemesis you will have to face. Turn to 18.

290
You have encountered one of the wandering guardians
of the labyrinth, a vicious, scaly Imp with a barbed tail
and cruel little claws! The creature is not tough, but it
moves very fast and is hard to hit. If it has the higher
Attack Strength in any Attack Round, roll one die. If
you roll z—4, the Dragon Imp rends you with its

291

claws, but you may deduct only 1 point from your
STAMINA. If you roll 5 or 6, you are hit by the
creature's poisonous tail; the blow does no damage,
but you lose 3 points from your stAMINA because of
the poison it injects!

DRAGON IMP SKILL 10

If you win, retum to 392 and continue rolling dice
until you roll a 6.

STAMINA 5

291
Gliding down across the cavern, you startle the
Dragon, which watches your progress with real puzzle-
ment; it is not swift enough to react to unexpected
eventwi The flickering shadows and illusions round its
body dim; in its confusion it does not sustain this
defensive magic well. You now stand some twenty
metres from the huge monster, and it rears its head to
breathe over you. What will you do now? Will you:

Stand your ground? Turn to 199
Use a longbow or crossbow to fire
at the Dragon? Turn to 149
Throw acid at the Dragon, if you
have any? Turn to 82
Turn to 4

Rush the monster?

val ‘ Os

Paull Vaarna ag

292-294

292
You feel yourself flying along the passageway, and
soon you are soaring above pale clouds, gleaming in
the sun, far away from any passage. A cloud island
lies ahead of you, so you ascend to it and land in a
perfumed garden. Drinking the pure spring water here,
listening to the faint drone of insects, breathing in
the heady fragrances of flowers and herbs, you don’t
see the Harlequin until he sits down on a mossy rock
and grins playfully at you. He’s dressed in an extra-
ordinarily odd fashion, in quartered yellow-and-lilac
pantaloons and jerkin; and the strange young man is
fiddling with the shoelaces of a very fine pair of
heavy, grey, calfskin boots he is wearing ‘I think
these are what you want, if you enjoy flying,’ he
says as a tiny pair of wings sprouts from the heels of
the boots. ‘But you must answer my riddles first!’ Jf
you have the Tome of the Reaches, turn to the para-
graph with the same number as the first page of the
chapter on Riddles, If you don’t have this book, turn
tO 25%.

293
‘Who are you looking at?’ you enquire as you sit
down beside the robed man, staring deep into his
eyes. If your Nemesis score is 4 or higher, turn to 357.
If it is 3 or below, tum to 303.

294
Add 1 to your Time Track, but you find a crevice in
the rock face a third of a kilometre or so from the
main tunnel entry, You wil] have to squeeze along a
295

very narrow passage to explore here. If you decide to
do this, turn to 110; if you think better of it and want
to enter by the main tunnel, tum to 197.

295
Now you must fight your nemesis, the Ancient and
mighty Night Dragon. Its great mouth is filled with
teeth as long as your forearm, and the mighty
power of its clawed limbs and thrashing tail is evi-
dent — it is a truly appalling enemy to confront! You
must now add any modifiers to its skILL and
STAMINA to the basic values shown below. These
are already high, but when you have added the modi-
fiers they will be truly terrifying! You may apply
two final modifying numbers: if you have a Sphere
of Light to counteract the darkness of the Dragon,
you know the Sphere Number; turn to the paragraph
with that number. Additionally, if you have a Magic
Sword from the Mist Crypts, the Dragon is afraid of
this weapon and will automatically lose the first
Attack Round while it hesitates in fear. But its blows

296-297
are terrible indeed; each will cost you 3 STAMINA
points!

NIGHT DRAGON SKILL 17

If you win, turn to 71. If your sTAMINA is reduced to
4 points or below, turn to 216.

STAMINA 32

296
At the bottom of the chiselled stone steps is a small
landing with a pair of small wooden doors, just over a
metre high — clearly Dwarf-sized. If you want to open
the right-hand door, turn to 120. If you prefer to open
the left-hand door, turn to 80.

297
You tigger a trap in the chest; putrid, reeking gas
begins to pour our of it filling your lungs. You reel
back, coughing and spluttering; lose 2 sraMINA points.
Now you can either cross the large chamber outside
and open the door opposite the one by which you
entered the assassins’ room (turn to 310) or make your
way back and leave Carnex {turn to 7s).

298-299

298

The shield you seek is inside the Jarl’s cabin. If you
want to try some subterfuge to get at it, you must
have something to aid you. If you have a Potion of
Invisibility, you know the name of the man you
bought it from. Convert his name into a number using
the code, A=1, B=2, C=3 ... and so on to
Z = 26. Add up the numbers corresponding to the
letters of his name, and tum to the paragraph with
that number. If you do not have this Potion, you
cannot hope to get past the many guards round the
camp; if you have not entered the camp before, you
can do so by marching up to it now (turn to 29), but if
you have already been in the camp, turn to 50.

299
The door is locked. You can open it in one of three
ways. If you have a set of iron keys, you can simply
unlock the door; tum to 172. If you have an ice pick,
you may be able to pick the lock here, though an ice
pick is a crude tool for such a task. Test your Skill: you
must add 3 to the number rolled on the dice unless you
use oil to lubricate the lock (you may use Walrus Oil if
you have it; otherwise use Lantern Oil, but then your

300-302

lantern will be of no further use to youl). If you are
successful, tum to 172. If you fail, or if you don’t have
an ice pick (or you decide not to bother picking the
lock), you can smash the door down, This will take
time, and it will surely raise the alarm here; if you do
this, turn to 372.

300
The Mirror speaks to you! A ghostly, disembodied
bass voice comes from it. ‘Now you need me,’ the
voice says greedily. “You need to stop the Blazing
Crusher, else the Ancient will grow stronger.’ Up to
now, your quest has been so strange that you consider
a talking mirror may just know what it’s talking about!
‘Feed me. [ need life energy, just as the Crusher drinks
blood!’ If you agree to this, turn to 187. If you do not,
leave and tum to 67.

301
If you have already visited Carex, turn to 233. If you
have not been to that town, turn to 264.

502
Eastwards lies the Great Mine, the most spacious and
extensive of all the dwarven deep tunnels. You stride
303

cautiously along the winding mine shaft, and as you
delve deeper you can smell gas in the mine, Even your
shuttered [lantern may be a hazard, igniting the gas. If
you want to dim your lantern, you may be vulnerable
to traps! You must also subtract 2 from your Attack
Strength in combat here, unless you have a Sphere of
Light. If you want to dim your lantern, turn to 319; if
you do not dim it, tum to 107.

303
‘Pardon me, | must have made a mistake,’ the man says
smoothly. ‘I did not mean to attract unwanted atten-
tion. Allow me to leave you in peace.’ He gets up to
go. If you want to attack him, turn to 257. If you wish
to follow him, turn to 344. If you prefer to let him
leave and yourself go elsewhere in the town, will you:

Leave and buy some supplies? Turn to 373
Leave and explore Ismater, if you
haven't done so? Tur to 10

Leave Ismater and head elsewhere? Turn to 268

5394-395

304

You round the coastline of Corpse Bay and arrive in
Rentarn, Add 2 to your Time Track This is a trading
outpost where fur-trappers and hunters mix with fisher-
men and, you have no doubt, some Sword Coast
pirates. Frost is forming on the wooden roofs of the
town’s warehouses, taverns and homes even as you
look. Dour-faced people are hurrying through the
cold, to get home to their suppers and buming wood
fires! Will you:

Try to buy some extra equipment or
food? Turn to 236

Sell some furs (if you have any)? Turn to 68
Head straight for the Rudderless
Galley tavern? Turn to 286

305
The Harlequin vanishes — leaving only his boots
behind! You take them; these are Winged Boots, allow-
ing you to glide safely through the air, and you will
be instructed in their use later on. You look around for
a way back from the cloud island, unsure as to how
you got here; when you turn around, the Harlequin is
behind you.

‘You didn’t play the game,’ he says sternly. “You are a
dishonourable wretch and you deserve the ill-fortune I
place upon you!’ You must deduct 1 point from your
HONOUR and 1 point of Luck (from both your current
and Initial Luck scores!) and the trickster dismisses
you with a wave of the hand; tum to 20.
on

ft - “> .
sy hen yo! .
re

/
’ 4

fad
oo

“&

f

5306-307

306

The skull of the Night Dragon suddenly sprouts skel-
etal, spider-like legs and its cocoon falls away as it
scuttles across the cavern floor to attack you! The skull
is a good four metres long, and its wickedly sharp
incisors are capable of ripping a bloody gash right
across your body or legs. Wisps of acid smoke rise
from the monstrous skull as it closes in for the kill!

NIGHT DRAGON SKULL SKILL i1 STAMINA 12

If you win, turn to 214.

307
The Shield will add 1 to your Attack Strength in all
combats — and it has other magical qualities, which
you will not learn of until the right circumstances arise
—-suffice it to say that it may well save your life in the
Night Dragon’s lair! On the back of the Shield seventy
iron rivets have been sunk to hold the front part snug
to the back of the Shield. The number of rivets is the
Shield Number, so make a note of this.

If you are ready to face the Night Dragon now, you
know the number of the paragraph to turn to! If you
have Magic Shield, Magic Armour and Magic Sword,
and you have not yet met-the Loremaster, add the
Shield Number, Armour Number and Sword Number
together to get a total, then turn to the paragraph
with that number. If you have both Armour and Shield
and you tried to obtain the Sword but failed to do so,
multiply the Armour Number by 4 and add this to the
308-309

Shield Number; tur to the paragraph with the same
number as this total. If you still seek either Armour or
Sword, tum to 219.

308
Standing in the main long passage, with your back to
the way you came in, you can explore somewhere you
haven't been before, Will you:

Open the first right-hand door? Tum to 389
Open the second right-hand door? Tum to 299
Open the left-hand door? Tum to 183

Make for the spiral staircase? Turn to 262

399

The Black Dragon grins in a way you do not find
entirely wholesome; he has a hungry look about him.
‘The Ancient lies to the north of here. But we do not
know where; the Loremaster knows how to find the
Ancient’s caves. We know that, if you find sword,
shield and armour, you will find him; we also know
that he has a wandering servant of strange aspect who
travels in the Icefinger Mountains. By great good
fortune you might encounter him — though, from what
little we know, he will not be what you expect!’

The Dragons give you further information. The Stalk-
ers which serve the Ancient are reptiles, mutated
Dragon hatchlings stolen and distorted by magic, The
Dragons lock angry when they speak of these
creatures, and they warn you that Stalkers grow more
numerous as time passes! There are also robed men,
acolytes and assassins, who serve the Ancient, and

310-311

they hold sway over the town of Carnex — beware
that place! All this takes time to learn, so add z to
your Time Track The Conclave has told you the
essence of your task now: to find sword, shield and
armour, and the Loremaster too. It is time to meet
your destiny! Turn to 378.

310
A short flight of stone steps lies beyond the door;
descending them, you come to a single, narrow passage
which you judge leads northwards. The passage is
deserted and eerily silent, but it is lit by torches
burning and crackling in wall-sconces every ten metres
or so. At the end of the passage is another flight of
steps, this time leading upwards to a trapdoor. You
have a very strong intuition of evil lurking behind this
door; if you skill want to press onwards, lift the
trapdoor and turn to 57. If you decide to beat a retreat
from Carnex, turn to 75.

511
You peer into another antechamber beyond the door.
This room contains the rotted remains of old robes
and cloaks scattered about the floor, and you see the
312

glint of gold coins lying on the ground close to
another door opposite. However, you can hear some
disgusting, snarling grunts and slobberings coming
from beyond that half-open door! If you want to try
to get the gold or find out what is making those
noises, turn to 192. If you'd rather go somewhere else,
turn to 332.

312
You have the Magic Amulet the nightmare-monster
guarded. This protects you against the skiLL-draining
effect certain undead creatures (especially Wraiths} can
have on you. Roll one die and add 1 to the number
rolled (unless you roll a 6); the total is the number of
charges in the Magic Amulet. Each time you are told
you must lose 1 point of skit because of the blow of
such a creature, you can use a charge from the Amulet
to nullify this effect. If you have already lost any skILL
points, you can use the Amulet to undo them (using
‘one or more charges, of course!). When the Amulet
has no charges left, it will protect you no longer
Having taken the magic Amulet, you may leave by
the red door (tur to 123) or the silver door (turn to

146)

3513-315

313
The wizard grabs frantically at a lever beside his desk
and pulls it — nothing happens! You strike him with
your sword. He panics and draws a dagger, rather
than using his spells! Gain 1 Luck point; now fight the
wizard!

RED WIZARD

If you reduce the wizard’s sTAMINA to 3 or below, he
will surrender and beg for mercy, offering you informa-
tion in exchange for sparing his life — but can you
possibly trust him? If you spare him, you may be
Tisking a sneak spell attack! If you decide not to kill
him, turn to 248. If you decide to slay him, you can do
so automatically; turn to 283.

SKILL 11 STAMINA 13

You open the door — and just fail to take in the scene
quickly enough, A guard by the side of the door
whacks you hard over the head with a cosh. Deduct 2
points from your STAMINA, You are grabbed by the
throat and dragged into the room while you are still
struggling for your sword, and now you're in deep
trouble! Turn to 261.

315
You grab a handful of items, avoiding the evil wand
and scimitar the High Priest used You may take a
Potion of Stamina, which you can drink at any time
‘except during combats}; when drunk, it will restore
lost STAMINA points equal to half your Inifial STAMINA
(round fractions up), You can also take a book labelled
316

Tome of the Reaches; while most of it is gobbledegook
to you, there are three sections on runes which look
important (and which you can understand), Make a
note of these: a chapter on ‘Ward Runes’ starts on
page 44 of the book; a chapter on ‘Riddling’ starts on
page 191; a section on ‘Dragon Runes’ starts on page
229. Finally you snatch a handful of papers from the
desk and glance through them briefly. The important
notes give you pause for thought! ‘The Bone Furnace
is the essential thing for toughening the Ancient; the
Chillshadows increase his magical powers; the Blazing
Crusher makes him strong. All are now in place, and
his Awakening cannot now be stopped ...’ You don’t
waste time reading the paeans of praise to the Night
Dragon and the insane evil that the High Priest has
scribbled down. You've got to get out of here. If you
have Winged Boots, you can glide down from the top
of the tower and escape the town; turn to 75 (you
may also use a Potion of Invisibility, if you have one,
to escape safely). If you have neither item, you've got
to run for your life and hope you will be able to elude
pursuers. You must Test your Luck: if you are Lucky,
turn to 75; but if you are Unlucky, turn to 126.

316
The wizard rummages through his desk and extracts a
handful of gold and some food for his planned journey.
‘Right then,’ he says in a brisk voice. ‘Nightskull above
is where the Stalker-Mage is rousing the Ancient. He’s
the head of the Cult of the Ancient; the robed men
serve him. He used to be human, but ... well, if you
get to see him, you'll know what I] mean. The powerful

316

magical work is done up there — I’m only an underling.
If you can risk it, travel in the dark. There’s less chance
of attracting the attentions of the Undead up there. If
you see twinkling blue-and-yellow lights, best keep
away. The Stalker-Mage has the Chillshadows at work
there and you don’t want to meet them. Mind you, if
you put a stop to what they're doing, you'd destroy
some of the magic the Night Dragon will be able to
use. It’s not fully ready to wake-up yet, but if you get
into its lair ., .’ he shudders. ‘Oh, and don’t waste any
time going down any of the side-passages up there,
they just descend to the jaw-simulacrum. Great place
to get chewed to pieces or find yourself in a cloud of
fire. ] mean, this place isn’t called Nightskull for noth-
ing, It’s not an exact replica of a real skull — but then
the Ancient’s skull isn’t exactly normal, even by
Dragon standards. The Stalker-Mage is usually some-
where around the eyes; the Ancient’s in the upper
brain, of course.’

The Red Wizard prepares to hurry off down the
passage towards the exit, but can you trust him not to
raise the alarm? If you decide to let him go, tum to
128. If you decide to slay him, you can do this with a
surprise attack; turn to 283, If you decide to tie him up
and gag him, despite your agreement, turn to 34.

317

317

A huge, lumbering, grey-brown lizard, some five
metres in length, is heading straight towards you!
Hisses come from its wide mouth, and its yellow eyes
glow in the darkness like those of some wild beast.
This is no ordinary Basilisk you face: this is a much
larger version, a Mountain Basilisk — and it is a truly
deadly foe! You must decide how to fight it here. If
you have a Magic Mirror, you know the Mirror
Number Double that number, then turn to that para-
graph (first making a note of the sKILL and sTAMINA
of the Mountain Basilisk). Otherwise, you can fight
the Basilisk using a steel mirror and looking away
from the monster, or take a chance and fight normally
while looking at your opponent. If you look right at
the Mountain Basilisk, you fight normally, but every
Attack Round you must Test your Luck. If you are
Unlucky even once, you will be tumed to stone and
your adventure ends heret If you choose to look away
while fighting, you cannot be turned to stone, but you
must subtract 4 from your Attack Strength for the
duration of this combat. If you fight with a steel
mirror, you cannot be petrified, but you must subtract
2 from your Attack Strength every Attack Round, The
Mountain Basilisk will not be petrified by looking into
a steel mirror; it is so wily and cunning it knows how
to avoid such a fate!

MOUNTAIN BASILISK SKILL 8 STAMINA 13
If you win, turn to 51.
318

318

The green passage is damp and moss-coated. You
walk over heavy, peaty soil until you emerge into a
bower where ferns, shrubs and flowers grow in a riot
of greenery. At the base of the trunk of each of two
trees is a door, one red and one yellow, both open and
leading to a passageway of the same colour. An owl
eyes you quizzically from a tree branch and hoots
derisively. You see a huge trailing vine hanging from
a tree canopy so tall you cannot make out its upper
reaches, and at the top of the vine is a cluster of
purple-striped green seed pods. In the distance you
can hear a booming sound which is getting louder, as
if something extremely large was crashing through the
woodland. Animals around here are growing skittish
and fleeing into the distance. Will you:

Tum to 123
Tum to 292
Turn to 386
Turn to 338

Run down the red passage?
Enter the yellow passage?
Climb the vine?

Wait and see what happens?

319-320

319

Just out of range of my teleporting abilities right now,
I'm afraid,’ the cat says, ‘but I can take you most of the
way there.’ With a wave of its paw, the cat takes you
to a cold eastern plain with mountains in the near
distance. “The Jublez, the Frost Giants, they’re over
there,’ the cat says somewhat needlessly. Tve put
something in your backpack to help you out with
them.’ You look inside it to find that you now possess
two bottles of Larssen’s Firewater, guaranteed 120
degrees proof, which you didn’t have before. ‘Don’t
drink it, whatever you do. One glass can knock an Orc
out. Half a bottle will see off a woolly mammoth, they
say. Just don’t drink any of it yourselft’ The cat
vanishes in a puff of gingery smoke; turn to 334.

320
You plant the seed pod at the bottom of the slippery
incline, and a riot of vines and creepers explodes from
the pod, expanding and writhing up the passage. You
can climb these with complete safety. When you reach
the top, you are standing in a dank, chill chamber with
spongy walls, and before you is a door, of sorts. It
321-324

resembles a valve, with fibrous and rubbery flaps
which you need to push open, rather than a door.
Above the valve is a knot of blue-veined, thick fibrous
tissue which pulses just like the pipes and tentacles
below. You can force open the flap (tum to 362) or
plunge a weapon into the knot of tissue, hoping that
this will damage whatever protections the Night
Dragon has in this bizarre place (turn to 379)

321
You lose 5 sTAMINA points as you plunge the sphere
deep into the numbing cold of the dark core of the
cell. You almost faint at the pain which shoots up your
arms and into your chest, and you ree] backwards in
shock as you draw the sphere out again. Its light has
nullified the darkness! You gain 1 point of Luck (this
increases your Initial Luck also). Better still, the Night
Dragon will be weakened by the destruction of the
magic here. Make a note that, when you meet the
Night Dragon, it will not be able to use any magic
spells against you. If a later paragraph directs you to
suffer adverse effects from such a spell, you may
ignore this entirely! Now you must descend and follow
the twisting passageway below; turn to 53.

322
Ismater is a large village nestling in the foothills of the
forbidding northem and eastem mountains; herders,
fur-trappers, nomadic hillsmen, merchants and even a
handful of barbarian warriors make it a lively place.
You need to sleep and rest (add 2 to your Time Track)
and you must then eat a meal. Next day, you may

323

conduct your business here. You could seek work if
you're very low on supplies, you could buy equipment,
explore the village fully, or hang around in the taverns
and inns of the town to see if you overhear anything
of interest. Will you: ~

Look for paid work? Tum to 397
Buy some supplies? Tum to 373
Explore the village? Turn to 10

Relax in the taverns? Turn to 207

325

At the crossroads, one passageway leads back to the
main tunnel entrance; you stand with your back to this
one. The passage in front of you ends in a door, as
does the one to your right. To your left, the passage
runs straight then becomes a set of steps, leading
down in a very broad arc, A deep, bass, grinding noise
is coming from that direction, and it sounds very
ominous indeed. Will you:
524-326
Open the door in front of you? Tum to 133
Open the door to your right? Turn to 86
Go down the winding stairs? Turn to 340

324
You are hardly likely to find the armour you seek
here! Add a to your Time Track. Even the food in the
kitchens is long rotted and decayed, The shields were
designed for Dwarfs, and are not usable by you. Go
back and take the steps down (turn to ag6) or the
spiral staircase (turn to 206),

325
You find nothing in your search of the furnace room.
and by the time you have finished your exploration
you are dripping with sweat, almost overcome by the
heat; subtract 1 from your Attack Strength during
your next combat. If you have a Magic Mirror with
you and if your HONOUR score is 2 or higher, divide
the Mirror Number by 4 and turn to the paragraph
with that number. If you do not have the Mirror or if
your HONOUR score is 1 or below, turn to 308.

326
The mist beyond the door thickens into blue fog a few
metres along the irregular, winding passage which lies
beyond it. The stony ground fs slippery and treacher-
ous, and you can hear the slow drip of water in the
distance echoing in some great space. As the mist
begins to thin, you find yourself at the edge of a huge
underground cavern, scores of metres across. Opposite
you, there is an underground glacier or frozen waterfall

327

rising some thirty metres up to a rocky ledge! There
doesn't appear to be any other exit or entrance, so
you'll have to climb the glacier and get up to the
misty ledge above. To do this, you have two choices.
One is to use a magical seed pod, if you have one, If
you do, tum to the paragraph with the same number
as the pod has stripes, Alternatively, if you don’t have
this pod (or don’t want to use it) you must Test yorer
Skill successfully, adding 4 to the dice roll. If you have
spiked boots, you need add only 1 to the dice roll; if
you have an ice pick as well, you can Test your Skill
without adding any modifier. If you are successful,
turn to 145. If you fail, you fall during your climb; roll
one die and lose that many STAMINA points. You can
try to climb as many times as you wish; if you decide
to give up, or if you don’t want to attempt the climb
anyway, turn to 54

327
The two guards are standing with their backs to you,
some way across the large room. [f you have a
longbow or a crossbow, you can Test your Skill (adding
328

1 to the number rolled if you only have a longbow); if
you are successful, you can strike one with an arrow
before you rush in with your hand weapon {you may
deduct 2 STAMINA points from the first enemy you
face). If you have neither type of bow, you rush your
enemies at once. You must fight both of them together,
and in the first two Attack Rounds the second Grey
Acolyte will try to hurl a large metal ladle, full of
boiling yeasty slime, over you! If he has the highest
Attack Strength, you get a faceful of scalding liquid
and you have to lose 3 sTAMINA points.

SKILL STAMINA
First GREY ACOLYTE 8 9
Second GREY ACOLYTE 9 9

If you win, you descend the spiral staircase in order to
get closer to the mystery of what lies below the
brewery; turn to 347

328
Chipping the body out of the ice, you manage to turn
it over, and you dig out of the ice a pouch containing
4 Gold Pieces and some frozen Provisions in a bag
(add 2 to your Provisions). A single sheet of vellum
has writing on it; it has been rendered illegible by
being soaked in freezing sea-water — with the excep-
tion of a few words that you can just make out on one
fragment of the scroll. To your amazement, you see
your own name written there, and also the phrase
‘town of mex. You go back to your rowing-
boat, only to find that the Blackheart has disappeared
into the thickening fog! You yell at the top of your

329

voice, hoping they can hear you. Test your Luck. If you
are Lucky, you'll be picked up; turn to 112. If you are
Unlucky, you'll have to row north in this small boat;
turn to 184.

329

You shatter the statuette on the stone floor — and a
howl, which seems to freeze the very marrow of your
bones, comes from far, far away. The passageway is
disappearing and you are being sucked into a huge
cavern through a tunnel of screaming wind and fog.
You fall heavily as you are thrown forward into the
cavern (deduct 2 points from your STAMINA) and
before you stands — the Night Dragon ... or, at least,
some form of the horror within the Dreamtime. It is
only a projection, not the real thing, but it is a truly
terrifying enemy. Nearly thirty metres long, the sleek
black Dragon seems whole, complete — unlike the half-
skeleton statuette — save for its head, which is a three-
metre-long skull. A great rumbling rises from the
Dragon’s chest and its mouth opens; it is about to
breathe on you! Test your Skill. If you are successful,
you manage to dodge the Dragon’s breath; turn to 211,
If you fail, turn to 179.

330-331

330

From behind a massive boulder a black-robed figure,
some two and a half metres high, leaps out at you!
This is no human; it has a great, reptilian head with a
massive, fanged mouth, and its four-fingered clawed
hands are as sharp as steel and as heavy as rock.
Snarling and foaming at the mouth, the black-skinned
Stalker rushes at you!

Test your Shall. If you fail, it knocks you down and
stamps on you; deduct 3 STAMINA points, and subtract
2 points from your Attack Strength for the first Attack
Round as you struggle to your feet. If you are success-
ful, you may fight normally,

BLACK STALKER SKILL 10 STAMINA I1

If you win, you make a fortunate find; the Stalker had
just killed a pair of mountain hares and you disturbed
it before it could consume them. The meat is sufficient
for three meals {add 3 to your Provisions, and regain 1
LUCK point). Turn to 5.

531
Unfortunately, as you stand by the door for a few
seconds, moving into position to take a look round it,
a tiny, Imp-like creature suddenly appears in the air in
front of your face and stabs at you with a sharp
needle! Deduct 1 point from your sTAMINA. The Imp
flees to safety, but the door has swung open and now
you will be forced to fight the dangerous enemy
lurking in the room beyond. Turn to 154.
3327-333

332

You stand in a bare antechamber with three doors, not
including the one you came in by, which is now at
your back. The door to your left bears a heavy brass
plaque with many signs and symbols; the others are
unmarked. If you wish to study the plaque, and you
haven't done so before, tum to 234 Alternatively, if
you now wish to open a door which you have not
previously opened, will it be:

The left-hand door? Tum to 196
The right-hand door? Turn to 341
The door in front of you? Turn to 99

333
Now you're inside Carnex, you sense the chronic fear

and tension that dominate the place. Everything
appears normal, but the faces of the folk scurrying
hither and thither are turned away from you, and small
knots of grey-robed men stand nonchalantly at street
corners, watching all who pass by. This is clearly a
dangerous place, full of potential enemies. You can

5334-336

explore the town openly, not losing much time, or
you can keep your head down and be much more
circumspect in your exploration. If you want to explore
openly, tur to 103. If you decide to take extra time
and be more careful, add 2 to your Time Track and
tum to 125.

334
Another weary day is done as you head into the high

foothills that border the mountains; add 2 to your
Time Track, and you must now eat a meal. If you have a
Nemesis score of 5 or higher, and your Time Track score
is 45 or higher, turn to 284. Otherwise, turn to 239.

335
You flee from the Night Dragon's lair. Who can

reproach you? You slew the monster after struggling so
long and hard on your quest. Indeed, the Night Dragon's
servants are decimated and it will be years before the
Cult of the Dragon can arise again and the Ancient can
rebuild its strength. The monster will return to Dream-
time, but it will dream its awful dreams of slaughter and
atrocities there; before many years have passed, some-
one else will have to brave the terrors of its lair if
Allansia is to be saved. You have come so far, and done
so much good, that the exhausting march back home
will be dreadfully dispiriting for you. But your adventure
ends here, just short of the success you sought.

536
You hurl the seed pod down on the ground below; a
great vine sprouts up from it and you clamber down
337

as fast as you can! Test your Skill, If you are successful,
you get down safely as a bemused Dragon watches
you, unsure how to react; if you fail, you fall the last
ten metres or so and hit the ground hard, losing 3
STAMINA points. As you take some time getting up,
the Dragon is ready to attack by spell! Turn to 27x.

337
The Dwarf spits into the wood fire which warms the

cabin. ‘Beware of them,’ he hisses. ‘The grey ‘uns,
they're just the small fry, but the ones in black robes,
they’re dangerous. Bad men. Seen one or two in the
woods, heading northwards. I heard tell they're making
for the Dragon Reaches. Come from some place north-
west of there. Don’t you mux with them.’ Now, if you
want to ask the Dwarf about something you haven't
enquired about already, you can ask about the Dragon
Reaches (turn to go) or the area around in general
(tum to 157), or you can just turn in for the night and
get some sleep (turn to 275).

338-340

338

A huge Ogre, a good ten metres tall and carrying a
club twice the size of you, stamps into the clearing
and licks his lips when he spots you. Something
appears to be wriggling inside the sack which he
dumps on the ground, and you are going into that sack
as dinner unless you act swiftly. If you decide to run
for one of the tree doors, choose which one then tum
to 36. If you wish to climb the vine, turn to 84. If you
decide to fight the Ogre, tum to 102.

39
You push open a carefully crafted secret door and find
yourself standing at the top of another flight of stone
steps, which leads right back down again! If you want
to follow these steps, turn to 78. If you'd rather
backtrack and take the door in the cavern to which
your guide led you, tum to 132.

340
If your Nemesis score is 7 or higher, turn to a8. If it is
6 or below, turn to 268.
341-342

341
You are in a dusty storeroom packed with sacks of
grain, empty barrels, vials of yeasts, thick, gluey malt
extract and the like. There are some ceramic pots here
filled with a pleasant-smelling biscuity substance, which
may be nutritious. If you want to eat some, turn to 22.
If you wish to leave by opening the door to your
right, turn to 245. If you wish to leave by opening the
door to your left, turn to 221.

342
As before, the passage is precisely carved, and this one
has intricate decorations and murals. It ends in a great
pair of wooden doors, which you push open easily,
despite their six-metre width. Beyond them lies a great
dining hall with massive tables and benches, all covered
in dust, On the wall behind the high table a pair of great
shields are mounted under the head of a fearsome Giant
with canine teeth like tusks; in the distance, doors open
into the kitchens. It will take you a long time to search
this great chamber and beyond; if you want to do this,

343

turn to 324. Alternatively, you could return to the main
passage and follow the steps down (tum to 296) or take
the descending spiral staircase (tun to 206).

3

‘Let’s go,’ says the cat, and before your eyes the
Loremaster and his home vanish before you even have
time to say goodbye. As you rub your eyes to clear
your head, you find yourself looking at a walled
town with trails leading south-west and north-west
away from the place. Guards prowl the battlements of
the town, their crossbows levelled at anyone who
approaches. There is a single closed gate on the east
side of the town, the only obvious point of entry.

‘Might well be another way in there,’ the cat says
offhandedly. ‘You could ask a local. Or try bribing the
guards at the gate. Then again, you could wait for one
of the grey-robed murderers, despatch him, take his
robes and try to get through that way. Up to you,
really. Anyway, that amulet —’ the cat points with a
paw at an amulet round your neck which you hadn't
realized you were wearing ‘— use that when you want
to be taken to the Night Dragon. The teleporting will
leave you a couple of days’ march north to his lair.’
You can use this amulet at any time, except during a
combat, to get to the Night Dragon’s lair; note that,
when you do this, you should turn to paragraph 289.
Now, as the cat bids you good luck and farewell then
disappears in a puff of gingery smoke, you set off
towards the gates to see what you can see of Camex.
The gates open and a couple of armed guards challenge
you. Will you:
5344-345

Try to bribe the guards to let you in? Tum to 358
Attack the guards and fight your way
in? Turn to 223

Try to bluff your way through? Tum to 32
Back off and search for another way
into Carnex? Tum to 135

344
The man slips into the back alleys of Ismater with ease

and surprising speed, and you soon lose track of him.
Deduct 1 point from your Luck. Bemoaning your ill-
fortune, will you now:

Leave and buy some supplies? Turn to 373
Leave and explore Jsmater, if you

haven't done so? Turn to 10
Leave Ismater and go elsewhere? Turn to 268

345
A group of reptilian skulls comes flying into the
chamber; they will attack you by biting and battering.
They can prevent you getting at the wizard here, so
you are forced to fight them first. In each of the first

346

two Attack Rounds, the wizard will cast a spell at you,
and you must Test HIS Skill (his sxitt is 11). If he is
successful, he will inflict 4 points of damage to your
STAMINA as a ball of chill, numbing, black-magical
energy slams into your chest. If he fails, he will inflict
this damage on the skulls, since he aims his spell awry!
You fight the whole group of skulls as if they were
one opponent.

FLYING SKULLS SKILL 9

If you defeat the skulls, you still have to face the
wizard, who is drawing a heavy dagger to plunge into
you! Turn to 4o.

STAMINA IO

346
You can hardly expect to find a perilous Basilisk by
tomb-looting: lose 1 HONOUR point. From one tomb a
cloud of choking spores and dust fills your lungs with
hith, You reel back, coughing. weakened; lose 2
STAMINA points and 1 Luck point. Turn to 391.

347

347
You descend the spiral staircase and walk as quietly as

you can along the winding stone passageway beneath
it. You must have travelled a hundred metres before
you observe a slightly open door ahead of you. Seeing
and hearing no one, you open the portal and advance
into the chamber beyond. However, you almost wish
you hadn't when you look around: dark bloodstains
splatter the walls here and, in the corners of the room,
stand stone statues of a ghastly Dragon-like figure.
The statues of the skeletal Dragon radiate malice and
hatred, and you realize that you have stumbled on
some terrible den of evil here There is a single door
other than the one you have entered by, but you
haven't time to check it closely! A secret door to
your right flies open and two men rush out at you
Fortunately, your alert senses allow you to get to the
doorway so that you can fight these enemies one at a
time. The first is a grey-robed assassin carrying a
curved dagger which is poisoned; if he strikes you
during the first three Attack Rounds of combat, the
poison on his weapon will cause you to lose 2 extra
STAMINA points in addition to the usual weapon
damage. After three Attack Rounds, the poison will
have dripped off his weapon. In the first Attack Round,
the black-robed man will cast a spell, and a glowing
cloud of claw-shaped black wisps of smoke will fly
from his hands and plunge into your chest, causing
you excruciating pain; deduct 3 points from your
STAMINA. Then the black-robed man will draw a
sword and fight you — if and when you overcome his
fellow!
348-349

SKILL STAMINA
GREY ASSASSIN ts) 9
BLACK ASSASSIN 9 12

If you win, you can explore behind the secret door
your enemies entered by (turn to 42) or open the
other door in this room (turn to 310). Alternatively,
you can decide that it’s time to leave Carnex; tum to

75-

348
You reach the top of the vine safely and take two of
the seed pods. They are bulky things, heavily striped
with sixteen stripes along their melon-shaped mass
(make a note of this). Now, if you have slain the Ogre,
turn to 227. If you have not done so, turn to 255.

349
Exploring the huge, bony chamber turns up nothing

35O-F51

and, as you stand at the far end, a deep rumbling
comes from below you, and the entire cavern starts to
fill with smoke and tiny explosions of fire! You remem-
ber that many Dragons breathe fire, and you're stand-
ing in the strange mouth of the mountain ... You race
to get back up the passage you entered by. Test your
Luck; if you are Lucky, you suffer only 1 point of
damage to your STAMINA from the rising heat and
flaring gas; but if you are Unlucky, you lose 4 sTAMINA
points. You climb back up the passageway you entered
by as fast as you can and make for the far end of the
odd ductile cavern above; turn to 392.

350
Your shield stands fast against the fiery breath of the
Dragon and absorbs it harmlessly! Regain 1 Luck
point. Now you rush the monster; turn to 295.

351

The guards turn to face you as you approach them.
Each is a two-metre-tall Stalker with red, scaly skin
and thick limbs, and they are powerfully muscled
beneath their heavy armour. They will strike you with
the metal shovels they carry, and you must fight them
together. The extreme heat of the room fatigues you,
and after four Attack Rounds you must subtract 1
from your Attack Strength.

SKILL STAMINA
First RED STALKER 10 11
Second RED STALKER 10 10

If you win, the furnace suddenly flares up and the heat
here becomes truly oppressive! Will you now:
352-353

Search this chamber? Turn to 325
Retreat into the next room and wait
awhile? Turn to 237
Leave, returning to the main
passageway? Tum to 308
552

You spend a first fruitless day looking for a place with
this name. After this, for every day that passes, roll
one die. When you roll a 5 or 6, turn to 167. If you
wish, you can increase the number rolled on the die by
1 by spending a point of tuck. If you tire of this,
you can try looking for a person named Endimion (tum
to 272) or ask questions about the grey-robed men, if
you haven't already done this (tun to 226).

, 553
A hideous figure in tattered black robes leaps out at
you from behind a snowdrift. It was obviously lying in
wait for you! It has a vaguely human-shaped torso, but
its clawed hands are as inhuman as its reptilian skull.

354

The eye-sockets of the diseased, yellow-boned skull
are fiery orbs of malice, and you shudder to see the
rotting pieces of flesh which fall from its skeletal form
as the monster advances upon you. As you ready your
weapon to fight the advancing horror, you must sub-
tract 1 from your Attack Strength because of the
nauseating stench which wafts towards you from its
decomposing body!

BONE STALKER SKILL Q

If you win, turn to 164.

STAMINA 12

354
Lobster Wharf boasts the scurviest seamen in all Allan-

sia. Half of them look as though their only reason for
not brawling on the dockside is because they're too
drunk to raise their fists! After your queries have
extracted some foul oaths and curses from these evil
brutes, you find out that the Blackheart is sailing for
Rentam within the hour. The ship’s first mate tells you
that passage there will cost you 10 Gold Pieces. If
youre prepared to pay that, and you've got the
355

money, tum to 122. If you can’t pay that much (or
you're too mean), you can try to haggle (turn to 171)
or you can make for Weaver Gate and take the

northern coast road (turn to 212).

555

Walking nonchalantly round the edge of the grave-
yard, you see a couple of grey- and black-robed men
making their way in and out of a particularly large
vault. Standing outside the entrance to it are two
stone statues of armoured skeletons. A grisly motif,
you think, and you see their heads turn very slightly
as if to inspect those who approach the entrance — or
is this just your imagination? Trying to force an entry
here could be highly dangerous. If you wish to try,
turn to 241. If you'd rather not try, you'd better
explore some other area of Carex which you haven't
already looked over; will you go to:

The taverns? Turn to 142
The brewery? Turn to 209
The towers? Turn to 383
The gardens? Tum to 175

3560-357

356

The side-passage soon terminates at a long set of
ascending steps; you think you can see a door at the
top of them, but you cannot be sure since it is a long
way off. If you decide to walk up and open the door,
turn fo 339. If you want to return and open the door
on the lower level at the end of the cavern, tum to
132.

337
‘Not here,’ the man says quietly. ‘Be outside the back

yard of this tavern at midnight tonight. Come alone. |
may be able to help you.’ He gets up and leaves. If
you want to meet him at this rendezvous, add 1 to
your Time Track and you can meet him by tuming to
52; otherwise, will you:

Leave and buy some supplies? Tum to 373
Leave and explore Ismater, if you

haven't done so? Tum to 10
Leave Ismater and go elsewhere Turn to 268

358-361

358

The guards iook fearfully at each other as you show
some gold to them. One looks over his shoulder and
mutters, ‘None of them greyrobes about. All right
then. Cost yer four gold.’ You must pay the guards 2
Gold Pieces each to be allowed past. If you're ready to
pay them, turn to 333. If you won’t or can’t pay this
much, will you:

Attack the guards and fight your

way in? Turn to 223
Try to bluff your way through? Turn to 32
Back off and look for an alternative

way into Camex? Turn to 135

359

You need rest after your exertions, so you find a
sheltered place to sleep. Add 2 to your Time Track,
and you must now eat a meal. When you are ready to
set out on your travels again, you can head north to
where the armour lies (turn to 186) or east to the land
of the Giants, where the shield you seek is located
(turn to 12)

360
You hand over the items the Great Jarl requests and in
return take the shield. Turn to 307.

361
You awaken, screaming with the memories of a terrible
nightmare, and it takes a long time for your nerves to
calm. Add 1 to your Time Track and turn to 281
362-364

362

Beyond the strange valve-door is a thick-walled duct
with walls of the same spongy grey substance as the
door itself. The duct is some twenty metres long and,
three-quarters of the way along it, a pair of side-
passages slope downwards. At the end of the duct is a
set of sinuous pillars of bristly, rubbery tissue which
appear to extend into a distant chamber, although you
can’t see what may lie therein from where you are
standing. It is very dark and gloomy here, with no
natural lighting. If you are using a lantern to light
your way here, turn to 15. If you are using a Sphere of
Light, turn to 59. If you are willing to risk walking
along in the dark, with the footing here treacherous,
turn to 116.

363

The catacomb complex is laid out intricately with
many sub-chambers, and exploring it takes a long
time. Add z to your Time Track, and you must now
eat a meal. Roll one die; if the number you roll is 4 or
higher, tum to 317 (you may add 1 to the number
rolled on the die by spending a point of tucx if you
wish). If you roll 3 or below, turn to 391.

364
lf you are wearing grey robes, you can pass by the
guard, who does not challenge you. If you don’t have
grey robes, when you speak he doesn’t reply to you;
Test your Luck. If you are Lucky, you do bluff your
way past; turn to 151, If you are Unlucky, he draws a
shortsword to attack you; turn to 231.

365-366

365
The undead Chieftain rises up and advances upon you,
His great sword is a powerful weapon; if he has an
Attack Strength of 20 or better in any Attack Round,
and if this is higher than your Attack Strength, a blow |
from this sword will cost you 3 points of sTAMINA
rather than the usual 2

UNDEAD CHIEFTAIN SKILL 11 STAMINA 12

If you reduce the Chieftain’s sTAMINA to 2 or below,
he accepts defeat and returns to this throne. He sum-
mons you to him and says, “You are worthy. I could
have done with more like you among my Wardogs.’
He stretches his sword around in an arc, indicating the
many tombs before him. ‘Now hear me! Below here, in
the blue mists, skulks the spirit of our clan shaman-
wizard. His treachery and infamy brought shame and
death to us; he came to serve a nameless cult of
darkness — one you too will have to face. It is he who
stalks the depths there, and he who blocks your path
to the sword you seek. To find him, jump into the
well!’ He grins at you; the effect is unnerving. The tone of
the Chieftain’s voice changes, becoming more stern.
‘As in life, in death 1 am a man of honour.’ If a skeletal
visage could give a wry smile, this one just did. ‘Lay
down your weapon and kneel before me. Show me trust.’
Now, if you want to kneel before the Chieftain as he
raises his sword, turn to 72. If you prefer to leave and
return to the antechamber you entered by, turn to 4352.

366
Something very bizarre is happening: you wander into
367-369

a complex confluence of passages where hanging hour-
glasses filled with multicoloured sand are flowing back-
wards — the sand is flowing up into the top half from
the bottom! You may subtract 1 from your Time
Track! Turn to 20 as you wander, somewhat bemused,
into the chamber you first arrived in.

367

All you turn up during a long search is a single Gold
Piece. You can’t lift the ingots, and the tools are
useless. Add 1 to your Time Track. You can now
follow the tunnel opposite the one leading to the
smithy, if you haven't already done so (turn to 19), or
go down the passage facing the one you entered by
(turn to 47).

368
You struggle to find a way round the barrier, since you
cannot see it; by the time you manage to do this, the
Stalker-Mage has cast his spell. A silvery web of glowing
magical fire expands from his claws and wraps itself
round your arms and chest. Deduct 4 points from your
STAMINA, and you must subtract 1 from your Attack
Strength when fighting the Stalker-Mage. Tum to 108.

369
The Dwarf accepts your gift with a smile and ushers
you indoors. You're soon eating fine rabbit stew and
quaffing dwarven ale, and the Dwarf tells you his
name is Darkflint. He doesn’t say why he lives here,
and you don’t ask. For your part, you tell him only
that you're making for Rentarm. It’s growing late and,
while you don’t fear the Dwarf, you're not sure what

370-371

else to say. You shouldn't be giving anything away
about your destination! If you are content just to sleep
here, turn to as. If you want to risk asking the Dwarf
about something else, will it be about:

The Dragon Reaches? Turn to go
The grey-cloaked men? Turn to 337
General information about the area? Tum to 157

370
Leaving Carnex behind you, it’s time to go elsewhere
on your quest. If you are ready now to face the Night
Dragon, you know which paragraph to tum to, Other-
wise, add 2 to your Time Track as you march away
from the town, and you should set off for a place you
haven't previously visited, Will you new go:

North-west to Slate Peak? Tum to 85
South-west to the Mist Crypts? Tum to 288
Far east to the lands of the Frost

Giants? Tum to 39

371
You have to search around to locate the camp of the
Giants, so add 1 to your Time Track. At last you find
yourself looking down on a large encampment of tents
and cabins among which a huge chieftain’s cabin is
pre-eminent. As many as a hundred Frost Giants,
together with large flocks of livestock and Snow
Wolves, are roaming around. Clearly, any kind of
attack would be suicidal. You could try walking into the
camp (turn to 29) or circling the perimeter, spying and
trying to think up some indirect approach (turn to 298).
372-373

372
The door flies open, and two snake-like figures dart
out from the room behind it. They are skeletal, but
tatters of scaly skin hang round their skulls and upper
vertebrae, and their spines are shod with iron. Their
jaws gape open, revealing razor-sharp incisor teeth as
long as your fingers, and they rise up and sway before
you! Resisting their hypnotic swaying will be difficult
Rol! one die and add your HONOUR score, If the total
bal OU is 6 or below, the strange swaying of the snakes dulls
Ty i your mind and makes it hard for you to act swiftly
vit We and strike effectively; you must subtract 2 from your
Na eer ee Attack Strength in this combat. If the total is 7 or
Le higher, you are unaffected. You must fight the magical
Iron Serpents together here, and each has a venomous
bite. For the first three Attack Rounds, if one of the
Iron Serpents bites you, you lose 2 sTAMINA points
through being bitten, and another 3 sTAMINA points
from the venom!

SKILL STAMINA
First IRON SERPENT 8 8
Second IRON SERPENT 8 7
If you win, turn to 172.
373

In the ordinary trading-posts of Ismater, you can buy
the following:

Extra Provisions 1 Gold Piece each

Rope 1 Gold Piece

Longbow and arrows 5 Gold Pieces
374-375
Glass bottle 1 Gold Piece
Ice pick 3 Gold Pieces
Flask of Walrus Oil 3 Gold Pieces
Keg of beer 4 Gold Pieces

Other items these simple shops supply are hardly
useful to you — thick furs, evil-looking animal traps,
harpoons and the like. After making any purchases and
adjusting your Adventure Sheet accordingly, will you
now:

Leave Ismater? Turn to 268
Explore the village, if you haven't
done so? . Turn to 10
Relax in the taverns, if you haven't
done so? Tum to 207
374

A gentle, tinkling voice rises from the gem-sphere.
‘We are very close now. I need the essence left here
Look!’ At a mental urging from the mysterious sphere,
you can now make out an inky pool of darkness at the
base of the pyramidal cell as the lights begin to fade,
Intense, marrow-freezing cold is beginning to radiate
from this dark core, and the sphere is asking you to
plunge it into that chill. You will suffer considerable
damage if you agree! If you consent to the sphere’s
demand, turn to 321. If you refuse, descend and follow
the passage below; turn to 53.

375
A dappled deer escapes from the sack and turns to run

off into the forest — but, before she does, she licks

396-377

your face! You feel faintly ridiculous, but the animal’s
saliva has a soothing, healing effect; regain 4 lost
STAMINA points and 1 point of tuck! Now, will you:

Climb the vine, if you haven't do so? Turn to 348
Enter the red tree door? Turn to 123
Enter the yellow passage? Turn to 292

376

Carefully checking around in the bare stone chamber
reveals no hidden secret doors or other exits except
the door you entered by. There is only the well, and
thick mist obscures visibility only a couple of metres
down. You easily find a stone to drop down the well;
from the sound it makes, you judge that there is solid
ground not too far below ~ perhaps four or five
metres down. For the time being, you need to rest
here; add 2 to your Time Track and you must now eat
a meal. When you wake up, if you have a rope, you
could use it to descend fairly safely, you think. If you
jump, it may be a little hazardous. If you decide to
take either option, turn to 46. If you want to backtrack
and search an area you haven’t visited before, you can
return to the antechamber (turn to 332) or take the
passageway to the left at the top of the stairs to this
chamber (turn to 138); make a note of this paragraph
number, however, so that if you need to return here
you can do so.

377
Horribly, your feet seem to be stuck to the floor! It is

almost impossible to run away! The monster behind
378-370

you is tearing at your back and you force yourself to
the door. Roll one die. The number you roll is the
number of free hits the monster gets at your back as
you try desperately to run, and each blow inflicts 2
points of damage to your stamina, Now, if you
chose the red door to escape through. turn to 125. if
you chose the silver door, turn to 146.

378

Ruminating over where to go next. you are only a
short distance from the cave when the Green Dragon
which brought you here comes up behind you and
hails you, so you tum to hear what he has to say.
‘Listen, brave one. { know the task which awaits you. I
can tell you more about what you need to know, and |
can even fly you to a place to which you should be
taken. 1 know where the sword, shield and armour lie
~ although, by giving you such direct help, | may
violate the Oath of Kilanirax. And | will suffer for
that.’ The Dragan shivers, and your eyes dilate at the
thought of what could scare a twenty-metre Dragon!
If you want to accept the Dragon’s offer, turn to 240.
If you decide not to do so, tum to 136.

379
You strike against the knot: a gout of steaming fluid
Sprays out and splashes over your face and arms.
Fortunately for you, the acid is not very strong, but
you lose 2 stamina points and you will be partially
blinded for a short time. You must subtract 2 from
your Attack Strength (for this fight only) as a pair of
shadowy, chill forms appear from the valve in front of

380-381

you! The two Chillshadows merge to form a stronger
creature. Each Attack Round you fight, you will lose i
point of stamina because you are standing within the
radius of freezing cold that surtounds the spectral
form!

CHILLSHADOW SKILL 9
If you win, tum to 362.

STAMINA 10

380
As you walk towards the archway, the Skeletons jerk
their swords upwards as if to challenge you, but they
are not attacking — yet. You are very close to the
archway now. If you want to attack the guards, turn
to 224, if you just prefer to walk on, tum to 87.

383
The Mirror Demon has one goal
through a mirror and into the Demonic Planes, where
you will be lost for ever! Combat with this monster is
highly unusual Blows from weapons (or from the
Demon's fists) cause normal damage (deduct 2 points
your STAMINA), but each time the Deman strikes

~ to drag you
382

you it will try to drag you into the Demonic Planes; if
the Demon Tests ifs Skill successfully, you will be
dragged towards the mirror! However, because this is
Dreamtime, you can use your willpower to resist; you
may then Test your Skill and, if you are successful, you
can resist the pull of the Demon. If you fail, however,
you wake immediately as the Demon drags you down;
tum to 361 Also, instead of striking the Demon, you
may try to smash its mirror; this is difficult because
there are so many mirrors here, If you want to try this
in an Attack Round, the Mirror Demon will auto-
matically strike (you lose 2 STAMINA points) and you
must Test your Skill, adding 3 to the number rolled. If
you are successful, you smash the mirror and the
Demon is drawn, shrieking, back into the realms of
nightmares!

MIRROR DEMON SKILL 10 STAMINA 10

If you win, by slaying the Mirror Demon or by
banishing it, turn to 174.

382
Skirting round the path taken by the pilgrims, you
head eastwards and enter the woodlands, It is very
dark below the light-excluding evergreens and the
ground is bare, save for a thin carpeting of pine
needles and cones. A haze of blue wood-smoke leads
you to a wooden cabin. A woodcutter, you expect,
but you couldn’t be more wrong, As you creep up to
the back door, past the piles of chopped logs, someone
taps you on the back and you whirl around, wondering
how on Titan anyone could have surprised you like

385

that. Standing behind you is a Dwarf; he is wearing a
chainmail vest and is tapping tobacco into his briar-
wood pipe, a two-handed battleaxe hanging from one
wrist. ‘Nosy, aren’t you?’ he says nonchalantly, ‘If you
want rest and shelter, my adventurous friend, I’[] want
something in return.’

The Dwarf isn’t after money, having little use for it.
You can stay and talk with him if you will give him a
Potion, a flask of liqueur, or a small keg of beer; turn to
369. If you don’t have any of these, or won't part with
them, you'll have to sleep outside tonight; turn to 275.

383
As you approach the walled towers, you can see that
there are several well-armed guards at the gate, their
chainmail armour gleaming under their loose-fitting
grey robes. You have to form some plan in order to
enter; the great central tower clearly seems your best
bet for discovery. You could advance and fight your
way through; if you wish to do this, turn to 203. If
you think you know the name of the High Priest here,
you could use this as a way of getting through. If you
do, tum the man’s name into a number using the code
384-385

A=1, B=2, C=3 ... Z=26 and tum to the
paragraph with that number. If you have seen tattoos
on the arms of the robed men, and you have tattooing
ink and a needle, you could mark yourself with a
tattoo which you've seen, then hope that this will get
you past the guards. If you do, you know the number
of the paragraph where you saw the tattoo; triple that
number and turn to the paragraph with the same
number, If you don’t want to — or you can’t use any of
these strategies, then there is no alternative for you
but to leave the town, to avoid the attention of the
suspicious guards here; turn to 75.

384
The wizard pulls the lever, and a grinding sound can be
heard from the room outside! If you wedged the door
there shut, turn to 313. If you did not do this, turn to 345.

385

As you push the door open with your shoulder, the
runes glow, then boil into a flare of fire and smoke,
You jump back, yelling in pain as you survey your
blistered skin. Deduct 3 points from your STAMINA.
Worst still, a search of the guardroom reveals nothing
but dust and dirt. The chest contains dirty clothes,
mostly rotted to rags even in this dry place. The stone
axes here are of no use to you, being long blunted and
designed for dwarven hands, not yours. You have
wasted your time here, Backtrack, then take the pas-
sage opposite, if you haven't already done so (tum to
33), or the one opposite the tunne] you entered by
{turn to 47)

386-387

386
The Ogre advances on you! Test your Skill. If you are
successful, turn to 139. If you fail, turn to 158.

387

You've only got one lead about where to go next: the
silver plaque with the word ‘Endimion’ on it. You are
forced to spend valuable time here in Rentam trying
to find out what this clue means, Each day you spend
here, you must add 2 to your Time Track. If you are
being hunted by the militia, you must roll one die each
day; if you roll a 6, turn to 194. Also, each day you
have to pay for food; you must deduct 1 Gold Piece,
or 1 unit of Provisions, each day you are in Rentam.
If at any time you get desperately short of food, you
can spend one day doing menial labour in the town
and earn enough to buy 3 Provisions (but you must
add 2 to your Time Track if you do this). Now, how
will you try to find out what this single clue,
‘Endimion’, means? Will you:

Look for a place called Endimion?
Ask around for a person named

Turn to 352

Endimion? Turn to 272
Try to find out more about the
Turn to 226

grey-robed men?

C anal

388

388
As the door opens, runes on it glow and drain your
vital energies; deduct 1 point from your sxitt! Now,
you are standing on a rocky ledge above a cavern so
vast you cannot even see its far walls. Leading down
from the rocky ledge is a pair of winding, crumbling
stone staircases, which descend fifty metres or so, In
the middle of the cavern is the Night Dragon itself
Your heart sinks as you take in its unimaginably huge,
hideously warped and evil form. The monster must
measure forty metres from nose to tail, and its black,
scaly skin shimmers with metallic blue and silver thread-
ing. Its skin seems too tight for its body in places,
while in others it hangs in useless folds; yellowed
bones protrude through its ribs, wings and here and
there along its limbs and tail. Its huge head is half
skeletal, as is the powerful and lengthy neck of the
Ancient One, Surrounding the horror hangs a thick
network of gluey, gelatinous strands which drip smok-
ing acid on to the cave floor. An icy-blue glow burns in
the eye-sockets of the monster when it gazes up at you
Those cold fires look as deep as the Demonic Planes
themselves, The jaw of the gargantuan Ancient slowly
drops half open and a deep breath resonates round the
endless gloom of its nightmare cave. The monster
advances a metre or two with a foul squelching sound
coming from the cocoon of slime round its body, but
now it is breaking free. If you wish to use a longbow
or crossbow to fire at the Night Dragon, tum to 177.
Alternatively, you need to find a way down; you have
three choices. If you wish to go down the steps, turn
to 147. If you have Winged Boots, you know the
389

name of the man who wore them before you; convert
his name into a number using the code A= 1, B=2,
C=3 ... Z=26. Add the numbers corresponding
to the letters in the name, multiply the total by 3, then
turn to that paragraph. If you have a magical seed
pod, multiply the number of stripes in the pod by 21
then turn to that paragraph.

389

You are hardly surprised to discover the two
chainmail-clad Skeleton Warriors in the bare stone
chamber beyond this door; they are guarding a door
opposite you.: You leap to attack, but they have an
unpleasant mode of attack themselves. They seem to
be made of too many bones, with a plethora of ribs
and extra limb bones; as you advance, the extra bones
detach themselves and fly at you in an arc of battering,
lacerating, bony missiles! Test your Luck. If you are
Lucky, you duck out of the way of most of the bones
and must lose just 1 sTAMINA point. If you are
Unlucky, you are hit by several and have to lose 3
STAMINA points. Disorientated by this unusual assault,
you cannot back into a comer before the Skeleton
Warriors are upon you, and you must fight them both
together.

SKILL STAMINA
First SKELETON WARRIOR 9 8
Second SKELETON WARRIOR 9 7

if you win, you can either return to the main corridor
outside and choose somewhere else to go to (tum to

390-392

308) or advance on the door opposite you (turn to
228),

390

The man will not meet your gaze. ‘I don’t know
nothing, I don’t. I'm just a farmer. Leave me alone or
I'll shout for the guards and then you'll be for it.’ He
wanders off along the trail Waiting for another towns-
man seems pointless; you'll waste a lot of time waiting
and it doesn’t seem as if they want to help much. So,
now will you try to ambush one of the grey-robed
men (turn to 61) or give up and leave Carnex (tum to
370)?

391

You see no sign of the monster you seek despite your
searching; add z to your Time Track. Returning to the
junction of the various mine shafts, choose a direction
you have not taken before. Will you go:

North? Tum to 29

South? Tum to 242

West? Turn to 14

East? Tum to 302
392

The pillars react to your presence and move together
to form a wall in front of you! You have a strong
intuition that cutting them to shreds with a sword
might be fun, but it would certainly summon powerful
guards you'd rather not face. You know you're close
to the Night Dragon now. You can force a way
593

through the wall, but you'll be squeezed and crushed
at a cost of 4 points from your sTAMINA. You can
reduce this damage to 1 point if you use oil (lantern
oil or Walrus Oil) to coat your body and armour, so
that you reduce the friction and make it very difficult
for the fibrous pillars to grip and compress your body.

Once through, you find yourself in a peculiar maze
of winding, twisting, narrow passages with semi-
transparent walls made of the same fibrous material
Finding a way through the folds and tums of this
maze is not straightforward. Each attempt you make
adds 1 to your Time Track, and you must roll one die.
You may choose to spend a Luck point at any time to
add 1 to the number rolled on the die. If you roll a 1
on any attempt, turn to 290. If you roll 2-5, you simply
wander around for a while, unable to find an exit. If
you roll a 6, turn to 243.

393
‘There is little 1 can add to what the Dragon Conclave

has already told you. However, I have studied all I
could concerning the Night Dragon, and I have ob-
served his awakening from the Dreamtime. Indeed, I
am a guardian of that time, if you like; my magic has
slowed his emergence from his own phantasms and
shadows. Now my magic will no longer suffice to
hold him, not after these long centuries.’ For a moment,
the man looks old and weary; he may appear young,
but you realize that he is older than any mortal ever
to have walked Titan’s many lands. ‘I know that
within the strange hidden illusions of Dreamtime there

394

are many magics which you could call upon to assist
you. Because I never sleep or dream — I am a guardian,
and guardians do not rest — I do not know where the
magic lies, nor do I know all the nightmare guardians
which the Night Dragon has invented in his own
dreams. He cannot banish the magic you might take,
since that is born of the dreams and aspirations of
heroes, but he can place terrors to bar your path to
them. And | must warn you that Dreamtime does not
function as normal time does. Should you enter it and
go seeking help therein, you may succeed in the blink
of an eyelid in Titan’s time — or you may be dreaming
for hours, Do not enter the Dreamtime lightly.

If, after hearing this, you decide that you would rather
resume your quest at once, turn to 281. If you wish to
seek whatever help you may in the Dreamtime, tum
to 6,

394
The captain, to your surprise, agrees readily enough.
‘We're slowed down by this damnable mist, so another
few minutes won't make any difference. Be sure you're
quick about it. He spits another mouthful of rank
tobacco juice on to the deck: now you know why it
needs so much scrubbing! You are lowered over the
side and row strongly across to the slow-drifting floe.
The black shape is a body, lying face down, clearly
frozen to the surface of the ice. A chill settles along,
your spine as you look at the black-cloaked figure. If
you want to investigate the corpse, turn to 35. If you
395-396

think better of it and row back immediately, turn to
412.

395
The black passageway is utterly barren. Your footfalls

make no sound as you walk along it; it seems to
absorb sound into itself. Of all the places you may
have visited in this odd realm of dreams, this one feels
more real than any other, oppressively, unpleasantly
real. At the end of the passageway stand two doors,
one red, one silver. If you decide to open the red door,
turn to 123. If you opt for the silver door, turn to 146.
Your alternative stands between the doors; on a bare
ebony tabie you see a statuette of the Night Dragon,
no more than ten centimetres tall. It is a skeletal, stark
thing, sculpted with its bones protruding through
ribcage and wings, and its head is an elongated,
reptilian skull with great incisor teeth and deep, sunken
eye-sockets. You could pick up the statuette and find
out whether you can extract any magic from it (tum
to 361), or hurl it to the ground and smash it (turn to

329),

396
The notes refer to work being done in the depths of
the mountain. From what you can decipher, a strange
device has been constructed to pound out a rhythm
which resonates with the bones of the Night Dragon,
and somehow this magically toughens them. You dare
not hang around to check the details, so you leave and
return to the crossroads. Take a route here which you
have not followed before. Will you now open the

397-399

door opposite the entrance passage (tum to 133) or
descend the winding stairs (turn to 340)?

You can get menial labouring work, hauling bundles of
furs and logs, for a meagre 2 Gold Pieces a day (plus
free food and board). Each day you spend working,
you must add 2 to your Time Track, and time is
precious on your quest! When you've finished your
work stint, will you now:

Buy some supplies?
Expiore the village?
Relax in the taverns?

Tum to 37%
Turn to 10
Turn to 207

398
The final blow paralyzes you! Now your opponent has
fresh meat to feast upon. Your adventure ends here.

399
Your missile speeds across the chamber — and drops
harmlessly against a wall of magical force barring its
way! Enraged, the Stalker-Mage drops his magical
defence and prepares to cast a spell at you. You must
move forward! Tesf your Skill. If you are successful,
turn to 108. If you fail, turn to 368.
400

400

You are outside the wretched mountain of the Night
Dragon, still running for your life, when the top blows
clean off the peak and a massive pillar of fiery lava and
black smoke boils up into the sky! You fall, winded,
over a small rock and gasp desperately for air. As you
tur round for one final look, a ginger cat appears
beside you, licking its paws unconcernedly. ‘Great
firework display,’ it says. ‘Good work. I think an awful
lot of people, and no few Dragons, owe you a very
great favour for that. And when Dragons owe favours,
a wise man knows their value.’ The outline of the cat
shimmers slightly and begins to grow in size. It grows
and grows and doesn’t stop. By the time you have
realized that the smoke and rock pouring from the
mountain will certainly kill you, no matter how fast
you run, the cat has changed its form into that of an
enormous Gold Dragon; he picks you up in his front
paws so gently it feels like being tickled with a
feather. ‘Just don’t ask me who I am,’ the Gold Dragon
says sternly. ‘Suffice to say that I do not have to
worry about breaking any Oaths — not when I was the
one who invented them in the first place. Let us be
gone.’ As the great, majestic form of the mighty Lord
of Dragons rises into the heavens, you fall into a
weary sleep. When, many hours later, you awaken,
you will be glad that it was a dreamless slumber.

More Fighting Fantasy

THE TROLLTOOTH WARS
Steve Jackson

It started with an ambush. When Balthus Dire’s bloodlusting Hill
Goblins mount their raid on the Strongarm caravan, little do they
realize what dramatic consequences their actions will have, For that
caravan carries Cunnelwort, a mystical herb from Eastern Allansia,
destined for none other than the evil sorceror, Zharradan Marr! War
— between two forces well-matched for evil ~ is soon to ensue . -
Will Balthus Dire’s chaotics or Zharradan Marr's undead prove vic-
torious? The answer is here, in the first Fighting Fantasy novel

DEMONSTEALER
Marc Gascoigne

It started with a burglary Borne aloft on the back of an immense
bat, a sinister thief breaks into the tower of the sorcerer Yaztrormo,
Guided by long-dead voices, he manages to make off with an an-
cient scroll whose secrets could spell doom and destruction for all
Allansia!

Chadda Darkmane is soon on the trail of the thief. But as the quest
grows ever longer, his nagging doubts about the power of sorcery
turn into nightmares. The trail leads far beyond northern Allansia,
to the Pirate Coast and the twisting alleyways of Rimon, where
Darkmane's nightmares become flesh! For the thief has used the
ancient scroll to summon others to help him in his sorcerous task,
Demons who are not bound by the constraints of earthly forms —
who feast on the human spirit

A few brave companions accompany Darkmane, but will they be
enough — and in time — to stop the thief from unlocking the final
secret of Yaztromo’s scroll? Demonstealer, the second Fighting
Fantasy novel in a series that began with The Trofftooth Wars, holds
all the answers.
OUT OF THE PIT
Fighting Fantasy Monsters

Steve Jackson and Ian Livingstone

From the darkest comers, from the deepest pools and from the
dungeons thought only to exist in nightmares come the Fighting
Fantasy monsters — the downfall of many a brave warrior. Two
hundred and fifty of these loathsome creatures from the wild and
dangerous worlds of Fighting Fantasy are collected here — some are
old adversaries, many you have yet to meet — each of them de-
scribed in minute detail, An indispensable guide for Fighting
Fantasy adventurers|

TITAN
The Fighting Fantasy World

Steve Jackson and lan Livingstone
edited by Mare Gascoigne

You met the monsters in Out of the Pit — now meet the rest of the
Fighting Fantasy world! No adventurer should be without this es-
sential guide. It contains everything you need to know, covering
the turbulent history of the world, from its creation and early civiliz-
ations — through the devastating War of the Wizards — to the
present-day wilderness and anarchy where the delicate balance be-
tween Good and Chaos could at any moment be overtumed,

FIGHTING FANTASY
The Introductory Role-playing Game

Steve Jackson

Thrilling adventures of sword and sorcery come to life in the Fight-
ing Fantasy Gamebooks, where the reader is the hero, dicing with
death and demons in search of villains, treasure or freedom. Now
YOU can create your own Fighting Fantasy adventures and send
your friends off on dangerous missions! In this dearly written hand-
book there are hints on devising combats, monsters to use, tricks
and tactics, as well as hvo mini-adventures,

THE RIDDLING REAVER
Steve Jackson

Four Fighting Fantasy episodes to be played as separate adventures
or as stages in an epic adventure, The Riddling Reaver is a rival
worthy of the most daring adventurers, His mind is inscrutable —
but there is no doubt about the chaos he plans to unleash on the
world, He must be stopped, despite the hazards of the task!

A follow-up to Fighting Fantasy: The Introductory Role-playing Game,
it contains instructions and scenarios so that you can conjure up
adventures for your friends and send them on their most dangerous
and puzzling mission yet,
Steve Jackson's
SORCERY!

1. The Shamutanti Hills

Your search for the legendary Crown of Kings take you to the
Shamutanti Hills, Alive with evil creatures, lawless wanderers and
bloodthirsty monsters, the Jand is riddled with tricks and traps wait-
ing for the unwary traveller, Will you be able to cross the hills
safely and proceed to the second part of the adventurer — or will
you perish in the attempt?

2, Kharé — Cityport of Traps
As a warrior relying on force of arms, or a wizard trained in magic,
you must brave the terror of a city built to trap the unwary You
will need all your wits about you to survive the unimaginable hor-
rors ahead and to make sense of the clues which may lead to your
success — or to your doom!

3, The Seven Serpents

Seven deadly and magical serpents speed ahead of you to warn the
evii Archmage of your coming Will you be able to catch them
before they get there?

4, The Crown of Kings

At the end of your long trek, you face the unknown terrors of the
Mamang Fortress Hidden inside the keep is the Crown of Kings
— the ultimate goal of the Sorcery! epic But beware! For if you
have not defeated the Seven Serpents your azrival has been antici-

pated

Complete with all the magical spells you will need, each book can
be played either on its own or as part of the whole epic
SHADOWMASTER

, lan Livingstone

Chaos stalks the wild lands of northern Allansia. Crue] bandits raid
the villages, ransacking and looting as they go Now, though, the
attackers are in search of a treasure far more valuable than gold.
Driven by their inhuman leader, they are in pursuit of the key that
will unlock the very mysteries of life and death itself!

The sorcerer Yaztromo, for 30 long the self-appointed guardian of
the lands around Darkwood Forest, cannot stand idly by while his
countrymen are put to the sword. With Chadda Darkmane close at
hand, Yaztromo embarks on a quest to discover the source of the
raids and the sinister reason behind them.

What they discover is that when Chaos rules, nothing can ever be
as it seems, Fair hides foul, insanity hides inner order, and darkness
lurks deep within the light. Can Yaztromo and Darkmane defeat
these illusions to discover the real master of the shadows? Only
Shadcwrnaster, the third Fighting Fantasy novel, can tell you!
Advanced Fighting Fantasy

DUNGEONEER
Mare Gascoigne and Pete Tamlyn

Now you and your friends can create your own fantasy movies!
Imagine that you are the director and your friends are the cast of
heroes. Will you send them to battle with the evil wizard or recover
the Dragons’ hoard? The choice is yours, and Dungeoneer makes the
exciting world of fantasy role-playing accessible in a thoroughly
user-friendly manner.

BLACKSAND!
Marc Gascoigne and Pete Tamlyn

Sprawling like the cocpse of sone stient creature. Port Blacksend im a
fealeting den of pirsiee and beigands Linforeseen dangers lurk
around every street comer and in very dark alleyway. Devious
plots and crittey ane hatched in every tavern Thiewes and atreetine
thp throwth the shadows Ancient mystenes lurk in the cellars arid
sewers. But the infamous City of Thieves is also home to excitement
and adventure beyond comparel

The second volume in the Advanced Fighting Fantasy serles which
started with Dungeonzer.
