~ FIGHTING FANTASY BOOKS

_ Over 13 million copies sold worldwide!

_ '

Rassir Abhuy has ruatded tS arvane tredsatires for
3 LIVINGSTONE

PRE SE

LeTmhinn Hut. wre eimearins SRT ee | DN: 1s Suen.

tive ind of Buddlestoie is oliirteed ti) a. CYTsia OT
opic propeirtions. Far the ancient book holds the key
to the legendiry Casket of Shadow ine. the Evil
imprisiined within tt. Should it be opened, the

= i — eae

7
Inferral Beast will be unleashed to wreak its terrible 4
CAITIANS RCPOSS the Old World
:
On the ninht af Shekkas Moon, scant days away :
tins will surely come to pass: Unjess, (har ts. ane :
brave hero cat ctHeve the Black i, nineire in. the 7
nick of time —o her like yi J '
'

FIGHTING FANTASY-THE WORLD'S MOS?
POPULAR ADVENTURE GAMEROOK SERIES

et

A PUFFIN BOOK LSUN U-t4-O3642T-i

| } 8020
| ;
) ;
U.K £1.99
AUST 009.95
(recommended)

CAN 55.98

ae

* FIGHTING FANTASY BOOKS

_ Over 13 million copies sold worldwide!

The Beast fx lone!

Rassin Abbey hus guarded Irs arcane treastires for
centuries, Rit wher the Black Grimwire i
the land! at (Ruddiestane is plimged inte « costae
cic proportions Far the ancient boak holds the te
to the lecendiry Gasket of Shadows —ond the Bi
lmptieined within it Should it he apened, t
Internal Bessp will be onleashed to wreale its verte

came across the Old World.
On the sighs of Sheleka’s Moon, scans days way
this will surel) came to pass: Unless, that is, 0

tnave herp ean reerieve the Hinck Grimoire in the
Tick of time =a ‘hers liky YOUF

FIGHTING FANTASY-THE WORLD'S MOS
POPULAR ADVENTURE GAMEBOOK SER

Cheez eed Wlovrranans by sar Lasghied

A PUFFIN BOOK ISSN 0-14-036427-7

U it, £3,993
AUST, $8,95
{recommended}
CAN $5.99

ii N¥IiGNY

ANULSD!

2 ACKSON
joLiVINGSTONE |

PRESENT

Puffin Books

SPELLBREAKER

Rassin Abbey has guarded its arcane treasures closely for
centuries. But when the Black Grimoire is stolen, the land of
Ruddlestone is phinged into an epic crisis, For the ancient book
holds the key ta the legendary Casket of Shadows — and the evil
locked away inside it. Should it be apened, the Infernal Beast will
be unleashed to wreak its foul camage across the Old World.

On the night of Shekka’s Moon, scant days away, this will come
to pass. Unless, that is, one brave hero can retrieve the Black
Grimoire tn the nick of time — a hero like YOU! After all, you had
your part to play in the book's disappearance. Ruddlestone is a
wild and lawless land, but here and there you may discover
hidden allies too Will they be enough, though, to help you win
through to the end of your quest — and victory?

Two dice, a pencil and eraser are al] you need to embark on this
exciting adventure, which comes complete with its own elaborate
combat system and a score sheet to record your progress. Many
dangers lie ahead, and your sucess is anything but certain. It’s up
to YOU to decide which route to fallow, which dangers to risk
and which foes to ight But beware, for time is fast running out!

Fighting Fantasy Gamebooks

1 THE WARLOCK OF FIRETOP
MOUNTAIN
2 THE CITADEL OF CHAOS
3 THE FOREST OF DOOM
4 STARSHIP TRAVELLER
5 CITY OF THIEVES
6 DEATIITRAP DUNGEON
7 ISLAND OF THE LIZARD KING
8 SCORPION SWAMP
9 CAVERNS OF THE SNOW
WITCH
to HOUSE OF HELL
11 TALISMAN OF DEATH
12 SPACE ASSASSIN
13 FREEWAY FIGHTER

14 TEMPLE OF TERROR ?

15 THE RINGS OF KETHER

16, SEAS OF BLOOD

17 APPOINTMENT WITH FEAR

18 REBEL PLANET

19 DEMONS OF THE DEEP

20 SWORD OF THE SAMURAI

21 TRIAL OF CHAMPIONS

22 ROBOT COMMANDO

23 MASKS OF MAYHEM

24 CREATURE OF HAVOC

25 BENEATH NIGHTMARE
CASTLE

26, CRYPT OF THE SORCERER

Steve Jackson’s SORCERY!
1 THE SHAMUTANTI HILLS
2 KHARE - CITYPORT OF TRAPS

z7 STAR STRIDER

28 PHANTOMS OF FEAR

29 MIDNIGHT ROGUE

30 CHASMS OF MALICE

31 BATTLEBLADE WARRIOR

32. SLAVES OF THE ABYSS

33 SKY LORD

34 STEALER OF SOULS

35. DAGGERS OF DARKNESS

36 ARMIES OF DEATH

37 PORTAL OF EVIL

38 VAULT OF THE VAMPIRE

39 FANGS OF FURY

40 DEAD OF NIGHT

41 MASTER OF CHAOS

42 BLACK VEIN PROPHECY

43 THE KEEP OF THE LICH-LORD

44 LEGEND OF THE SHADOW
WARRIORS

45 SPECTRAL STALKERS

46 TOWER OF DESTRUCTION

47 THE CRIMSON TIDE

468 MOONRUNNER

49 SIEGE OF SARDATH

50 RETURN TO FIRETOP
MOUNTAIN

52 ISLAND OF THE UNDEAD

52, NIGHT DRAGON

3 THE SEVEN SERPENTS
4 THE CROWN OF KINGS

FIGHTING FANTASY — The Introductory Role-playing Game
THE RIDDLING REAVER — Four Thrilling Adventures

Fighting Fantasy Novels

THE TROLLTOOTH WARS — Chaos Invades Allansia

DEMONSTEALER — Chadda Darkmane Retums
SHADOWMASTER — Chadda Darkmane and Death

The Advanced Fighting Fantasy System

OUT OF THE PIT - Fighting Fantasy Monsters

TITAN — The Fighting Fantasy World

DUNGEONEER = An Introduction toe the World of Role-playing Games
BLACKSANDI — More Advanced Fighting Fantasy

Steve Jackson and Ian Livingstone

present

PELLBREAKER

by Jonathan Green

Illustrated by Alan Langford

PUFFIN BOOKS
PUFFIN BOOKS

Published by the Penguin Group
Penguin Books Lid, 27 Wrights Lane, London w8 51z, England
Penguin Books LISA Inc, 375 Hudson Street, New York, New York 10074, USA
Penguin Books Canada Ltd, zo Alcorn Avenue, Toronto, Ontario. Canada M4¥ 3ha
Penguin Books (NZ) Ltd, 182-190 Wairau Road, Auckland 10, New Zealand

Penguin Books Ltd, Registered Offices: Harmondsworth, Middlesex, England

3579108642

Concept copynght €) Steve Jackson and Ian Livingstone, 1993
Text copyright © Jonathan Green, 1993
Illustrations and map copyright (C) Alan Langford. 1993
All rights reserved

The moral right of the author has been asserted

Printed in England by Clays Ltd, St [ves ple
Fibnset in Manophoto Palatayo

Except in the Urnled States of America. this book Is sold subject
to the condition that it shall not, by way of trade or otherwise, be lent,
re-sold, hired out, or otherwlue circulated without the publisher's
prior consent in any form of binding or cover other than that in
which it is published and without a smilar condition including this

CONTENTS

INTRODUCTION
7

ADVENTURE SHEET
16

BACKGROUND
18

SPELLBREAKER
25
To my parents

INTRODUCTION

Before embarking on this adventure, you must first
discover your own strengths and weaknesses. You use
dice to determine your initial scores. On pages 16-17
there is an Adventure Sheet, which you may use to
record the details of your adventure. On it you will
find boxes for recording your SKILL, STAMINA, LUCK
and FAITH scores,

You are advised either to record your scores on the
Adventure Sheet in pencil or to make photocopies of
the sheet for use in future adventures.

Skill, Stamina, Luck and Faith

Roll one die Add 6 to the number rolled and enter
this total in the sk1LL box on the Adventure Sheet.

Roll two dice. Add 12 to the number rolled and enter
this total in the STAMINA box.

Roll one die. Add 6 to the number and enter this total
in the Luck box.

Don’t roll any dice for FAITH: you always start your
adventure with 1 FAITH point.

For reasons that will be explained below, all your
scores will change constantly during the adventure.
You must keep an accurate record of these scores, and
for this reason you are advised to write small in the
boxes or to keep an eraser handy. But never rub out
your Initial scores. Although you may be awarded
additional skiLL, STAMINA and LUcx points, their totals
may never exceed their Inifial scores, except on very
fare occasions and then the text will specifically tell
you so.

Your FAITH score differs from your other attributes
because it is not restricted by an Initial score. Your
FAITH may increase or decrease in certain situations,
which will be explained.in the relevant paragraphs.

Your SKILL reflects your expertise in combat, your
dexterity and agility. Your STAMINA score reflects
how healthy and physically fit you are. Your Luck
score indicates how lucky you are. Your FAITH score
reflects your inherent Goodness and your belief in the
forces of Order. A high Faitu score can enable you to
repel certain demons and evil spirits, and it may bring
you blessings in other forms.

Battles

During your adventure you will often encounter hostile
creatures. In some such situations you may be given
special options, allowing you to deal with the encoun-
ter in an unusual manner, but in most cases you will
have to resolve battles as desctibed below.

Enter your opponent's SKILL and STAMINA scores in

8

the first empty Encounter box on your Adventure
Sheet. You should also make a note of any special
abilities or instructions which are unique to that particu-
lar opponent. Then follow this sequence:

1. Roll two dice for your opponent. Add its skItL
score to the total rolled, to find its Attack Strength,

2. Roll two dice for yourself, then add your current
SKILL score to find your Attack Strength.

3. If your Attack Strength is higher than your oppo-
nent’s, you have wounded it: proceed to step 4. If
your opponent's Attack Strength is higher than
yours, it has wounded you: proceed to step 5. If
both Attack Strength totals are the same, you have
avoided or partied each other's blows; start a new
Attack Round from step 1, above.

4. You have wounded your opponent, so subtract 2
points from its STAMINA score. You may use LUCK
here to do additional damage (see below). Proceed
to step 6.

5. Your opponent has wounded you, so subtract 2
points from your STAMINA score. You may use
LuCK to reduce the loss of STAMINA (see below).

6. Begin the next Attack Round, starting again at step
1. This sequence continues until the staMINA score
of either you or your opponent reaches zero, which
means death. If your opponent dies, you are free to
continue with your adventure. If you die, your
adventure ends and you must start all over again
by creating a new character.

Fighting More Than One Opponent

In some situations you may find yourself facing more
than one person or creature in combat. Sometimes you
will treat them as a single opponent; sometimes you
will be able to fight each in tum; and at other times
you will have to fight them all at the same time! If
they are treated as a single opponent, the combat is
resolved normally. When you are instructed to fight
your opponents one at a time, the combat is again
resolved normally — except that once you defeat an
enemy, the next steps forward to fight you!

When you find yourself under attack from more than
one opponent at the same time, each adversary will
make a separate attack on you in the course of each
Attack Round, but you can choose which one to fight.
Attack your chosen target as in a normal battle.
Against any additional opponents you throw for your
Attack Strength in the normal way. If your Attack
Strength is greater than your opponent's, in this in-
stance you will not inflict any damage; you can regard
it as having partied an incoming blow. If your Attack
Strength is lower than your adversary’s, however, you
will be wounded in the normal way. Of course, you
will have to settle the outcome against each additional
adversary separately,

0

Luck

At various times during your adventure, either in battles
or when you come across other situations in which
you could be either Lucky or Unlucky (details of these
are given in the relevant paragraphs), you may use
Luck to make the outcome more favourable to you.
But beware! Using Luck is a risky business and, if you
are Unlucky, the results could be disastrous.

The procedure for Testing your Luck works as follows:
roll two dice. If the number rolled is less than, or equal
to, your current LUCK score, you have been Lucky and
the outcome will be in your favour. If the number
rolled is higher than your current LucK score, you
have been Unlucky and will be penalized.

Each time you Test your Luck, you must subtract 1
point from your current Luck score. Thus you will
soon realize that, the more you rely on your Luck, the
more risky this procedure will become.

Lsing Luck in Battles

In certain paragraphs you will be told to Test your
Luck, and you will then find out the consequences of
being Lucky or Unlucky. However, in battles, you
always have the option of using your Luck, either to
inflict more serious damage on an opponent you have
just wounded or to minimize the effects of a wound
you have just received.

If you have just wounded an opponent, you may Test
your Luck as described above. If you are Lucky, you

il

have inflicted a severe wound; deduct an extra 2
points from your opponent's sTAMINA score. If you
are Unlucky, however, your blow only scratches your
opponent, and you must deduct only 1 point from
your opponent's sTAMINA (so that, instead of scoring
the normal 2 points of damage, you now score only
1).

Whenever you yourself are wounded in combat, you
may Test your Luck to try to minimize the wound. If
you are Lucky, your opponent’s blow merely grazes
you; deduct only 1 point from your sTAMINA, If you
are Unlucky, your wound is a serious one and you
must deduct 1 extra STAMINA point (i.e. deduct a total
of 3 points from your own STAMINA).

Remember: you must subtract 2 point from your Luck
score whenever you Test your Luck.

More About Your Attributes

Skill
Your skitt score will not change much during the
course of your adventure. Occasionally a paragraph
may give instructions to increase or decrease your
SKILL score, but it may not exceed its Initial value
unless you are specifically instructed to the contrary.

At various times during your adventure, you will be
told to Test your Skill. The procedure for this is the
same as that for Testing your Luck: roll two dice. If the
number rolled is less than, or equal to, your current
SKILL score, you have succeeded in your test and the
result will go in your favour. If the number rolled is
higher than your current SKILL score, you have failed
the test and will have to suffer the consequences
However, unlike Testing your Luck, you do not have to
subtract 1 point from your sKILt each time you Test
your Skill.

Stamina

Your STAMINA score will change a lot during your
adventure. It will drop, either as a result of wounds
gained through combat, or by falling foul of traps and
pitfalls, or after you have performed any particularly
arduous task. If your sTAMINA score ever falls to zero,
you have been killed and should stop reading the
book immediately. Brave adventurers who wish to
pursue their quest must roll up a new character and
start all over again.

13

You can restore lost sTAmMINA by eating meals or
Provisions. You start the game with Provisions equiva-
lent to 5 meals, and you may obtain more as your
adventure progresses. You must keep track of how
many meals’ worth of Provisions you have left by
filling in the details in the Provisions box of your
Adventure Sheet. Each time you eat a meal you may
restore up to 4 points of sTAMINA, but you must
remember to deduct 1 meal from your Provisions box.
You may stop and eat Provisions at any time except
when you are engaged in combat.

Luck

Additions to your Luck score may be awarded when
you have been particularly lucky or have created your
own luck by some action. Details are given, where
appropriate, in the paragraphs of the book. Remember
that, as with skiLL and STAMINA, your LUCK score
may exceed its Initial value only in exceptional circum-
stances, which will be explained when appropriate.

Faith
As you will soon discover, your FAITH will be very
important in this adventure. You start the game with 1
FAITH point, granted to you because you have under-
taken a holy pilgrimage. Relics of Good and blessings
can increase your FAITH, while curses and evil actions,
ill-befitting a heroic adventurer, will have the effect of
decreasing your FAITH score. Precisely how your FAITH
works will be revealed during your adventure: you
will be instructed about this in the relevant para-

graphs.

be

Equipment and Gold

You begin your adventure with only the tools of your
trade: a sword, a lantern and tinderbox, and a backpack
to hold your Provisions and Gold Pieces. To find out
how many Gold Pieces you possess, roll one die and
add 4 to the number rolled. Note this total down in
the Gold Pieces box on your Adventure Sheet. Your
sword and lantern should be noted in the Equipment
box on your Adventure Sheet, as must any other useful
items you may find on your travels,

SKILL STAMINA

Initial Skitl=

[ ' . EEGOLD PIECES

Initial Stamina=

ADVENTURE SHEET

LUCK

Initial Luck=

Re ti eae heed
PROVISIONS

EQUIPMENT & TREASURE

NOTES

ENCOUNTER BOXES

Skifl= j

slamina=

La

Skil=

Stamina=

Skili=

Stamina=

Skill=

Stamina=

Skill=

Skill=

Stamina=

Stamina=

Skill= Skill=

Stamina= Stamina=

Skili= Skitl=

Stamina= Stamina=

Skill=

Skill=

Staming= Stamina=

BACKGROUND

With a deafening crash another bolt of lightning shears
through the boiling night sky. For a moment the
blasted heath round you is brilliantly illuminated and
through the driving rain you catch sight of shelter at
last, but it is not the abbey. Instead, a few trees stand
huddled together on the barren moor, stark against the
horizon. Through the sounds of the storm behind you,
you can make out the howling of wolves, broken
occasionally by a banshee wail. With renewed determi-
nation you find the strength to start running again
over the sodden earth, with the blood pounding in
your ears

As you near the copse, you pick out the glow from a
small campfire among the trees. Someone has already
taken shelter from the storm here, Cautiously, with
one hand on the hilt of your sword, you step towards
the fire. The figure seated beside the fire slowly looks
up as you approach. ‘There is no need for that, I am
not armed,’ the man says, holding wide his arms so
you can see that he is speaking the truth Thunder
rumbles across the moors and the next flash of light-
ning reveals the man’s face. He is young-looking but
his face is pale and drawn as if it has seen a lifetime of
hardship, while his eyes hold a deeper knowledge than
his years suggest. And he is smiling. ‘Come, take
shelter by my fire,’ he says warmly. ‘It looks as if you

18

need it.’ Tired and cold, you take up the stranger's
offer. ‘Such a night as this, evil things stalk the earth,
or so people say.’ You look up anxiously as you hear a
rustling in the branches of the trees. "What are you
doing out on a night such as this?’ he asks

You decide you have nothing to lose by telling this
stranger your story, so you explain how you now find
yourself lost on these bleak moors at night. All your
adult life you have lived as a hired sword, searching
for adventure wherever it may be found across the
Old World. However, for several years now you have
considered taking a rest from the adventuring life in
order to retum to your homeland of Ruddlestone and
undertake a pilgrimage for the good of your soul. So it
was that, two months ago, you arrived at the northern
port of Harabnab, aboard a merchant ship from Arkle-
ton in distant Analand, just as the month of Watching
was coming to a close. From there you began your
journey an foot, to the shrine town of Hallow's Well,
at the edge of the western hills, renowned for its
healing spring, as 30 many pilgrims have done before
you. You were heading for Rassin Abbey where, you
heard, you could spend a night away from the wilds
om the way to Hallow's Well, when the storm broke,
causing you to stray from the road across the heath.
You soon became lost on these desolate moors, cer-
tainly not the sort of place where you wanted to
spend the night, what with a storm raging about you,
wild animals roaming free, and possibly worse.

The stranger tells you that he too is a pilgrim caught
in a similar predicament, but he was fortunate enough

19
to reach the copse before the storm grew too bad.
However, he is sure he knows which direction Rassin
Abbey lies in. The two of you decide to try and reach
it together, which would be so much safer than travel-
ling separately. Leaving the cover of the trees, the two
of you dash out through the pouring rain.

After running for half an hour with the wind and rain
driving into your faces, you come to the top of a rise
and see the road leading down to the small, dark,
stone buildings of Rassin Abbey, cowering under the
terrible force of the storm. Then comes the scream. [t
chills you to the bone and curdles your blood. Al-
though almost paralysed with fear, you and the
stranger look around, to see dozens of foul Demons
bearing down on you from the turbulent skies. They
are grotesque to look at, with bulging eyes, bloated,
misshapen bodies, writhing tentacles, vicious talons
and slavering jaws. They scream and gibber with
excitement as they speed towards you over the heath.
The next thing you know, you are hurtling down the
hillside towards the abbey, your legs ready to give
way under you al any moment. As you run, you fend
off the Demons by waving your sword wildly in the
ait. The stranger has no weapon and so does the best
he can with his bare hands.

When you reach the abbey, you bang on the door
with all your might, shouting for sanctuary. A bolt is
drawn back and you fall into the space beyond. The
stranger stands in the doorway, still trying to ward off
the Demons. ‘Quick, come inside!’ you call to him. As
soon as he is over the step, the door is slammed shut

20

and bolted, one last chill gust of wind all that remains
of the gale outside. You pick yourself up and survey
the huddle of anxious faces looking back at you. You
are standing in a low-ceilinged hall and the people
surrounding you are monks, all dressed in plain brown
habits. Once you have explained what the two of you
are doing here, one of the monks tells you that they
are a community of the Priests of Enkala and only a
day’s walk from Hallow’s Well. He adds that you are
both welcome to spend the rest of the night in their
guest hall and leads you to join the other pilgrims
already sleeping there,

You have not been asleep long when you wake from a
terrible dream about Demons, to see the stranger
creeping furtively out of the hall. Your suspicions
aroused, you wait unti] he has gone then follow him
through the darkened passageways of the abbey. At
last you come to a room which the stranger enters,
closing the door behind him and locking it. Suddenly
someone cries out from inside the room and there is a
crash. You beat at the door with your fists, to no avail,
so you begin to try to break it down. You burst into
the room at the same time as a group of monks enter
through another door. You are standing in a library
and the body of a monk is lying, face down, on the
floor beside his upset writing desk. There is no sign of
the stranger, ‘Down there,’ shouts a monk, pointing to
a flight of stone steps beyond another open door. You
run down the steps, followed by the monks, and burst
into a small, dank room lit by a single torch. Against
the far wall, the stranger is kneeling beside a large,

21
open oak chest, and in the flickering torchlight you see
that he is holding a huge, black book in his hands. As
you enter the chamber he spins around and gets to his
feet.

‘Thanks, friend,’ he laughs mockingly, ‘Without your
help I couldn’t have got in here. I would stay longer,
but I have much to do.’ With that a dark veil descends
over the room. When it lifts again, the stranger and
the book are gone, but he has left something in his
place. As you watch, a cloud of swirling, noxious,
green smoke starts to form in the centre of the room.

Tum to paragraph 1. ©

NORTH-WESTERN ~
RUDDLES TONE

a
wa MGR.

= MARSH

Pi

er ey
Res we
Rie wh

“ /

“5

1

Quickly the cloud solidifies into a shape that makes
you recoil in terror. Standing before you is a monstrous
Demon covered in green scales, with fang-filled jaws
and reeking of the sharp, acrid smell of brimstone. The
foul Demon begins to advance towards you, raking
the air with its talons while sulphur-steam rises from
its mouth. Although it is a powerful beast, you are
fighting the Demon on holy ground so blows from
your earthly weapon will affect it. With a roar, the
creature lunges at you

BRIMSTONE DEMON SKILL & STAMINA 9

While you are fighting this hellspawn you are affected
by the sulphurous stench it emits from its mouth, so
for the duration of this battle you must reduce your
Attack Strength by 1 point. If you destroy the demon,
turn to 322.

2

Your mind clouds over as Nazek’s charm takes effect;
it is all you can do to stop yourself being brainwashed
by it, and you are unable to complete the spell.
Dropping the page, you look up to see that the Beast
is almost upon you. Tum to 250.

3
lt is midday when you enter the village of Mussuck,
although the sky is still overcast. Some villagers are
talking together in a group in front of a stone cross.
They seem to be complaining about worms ~— or
something! Going over to them, you ask them what

4

the problem is, ‘It’s the Devilworm, see,’ says one man.
‘A terrible thing it is and last week it made its ‘ome in
our well. No one dare draw water from it no more.
We ‘ave to walk down to the river instead.’ You ask
where this Devilworm came from

‘Old Tom says ‘e saw the Wodewitch castin’ a spell
over the well last Windsday on ‘is way back from the
tavem,’ pipes up the village busy-body.

“You look like a bit of an adventurin’ type,’ says one
of the villagers. ‘Will you ‘elp us get rid of the worm?’

Have you got time to help the people of Mussuck? If
you think you have, turn to 38; otherwise, turn to 264.

4
The tent is dark inside and smells of mildew. A boy
stands just inside the entrance holding out a battered
old hat into which you drop your Gold Piece (deduct
this from your Adventure Sheet). The other patrons of
the puppet show are mainly mothers and nurses with
their charges. Beyond a few rows of benches stands a
wooden booth with a pair of moth-eaten curtains
covering the opening. You sit down on a bench at the
back of the tent. Almost immediately the sign is
brought inside and the boy picks up a small drum and
beats out a tattoo. The curtains open and the show
begins. Whereas everything else about the set-up
seems run-down, the puppets are of exceptional qual-
ity. The story related is a typical tale of conflict
between a young knight and an evil sorceress. Other
characters in the story include a wise fool and a dmid

5

who gives the knight a golden sickle with which to cut
mistletoe as a guard against the sorceress. In the end the
knight is, of course, victorious and goes on to lead a life
of justice and honour. The show over, the members of
the audience begin to make their way out of the tent
You are still amazed at the fine workmanship of the
puppets and the skill of the puppeteer. Do you want to
remain behind in order to speak to the puppeteer (turn to
340), or would you prefer to leave the tent (turn to £57)?

5
Trudging on through the marsh, you enter an over-

grown clearing where an ancient stone totem lies, half
buried in the mud, This area of the fen was obviously
once a place of great magical significance for some
marsh-dwelling tribe. However, the residue of magical
energy here has attracted a Fetch, a creature that is
little more than a crackling ball of energy. Discharging
small bolts of lightning into the air, the Fetch has just
feasted and measures almost a metre across. Sensing
your aura, the scintillating ball flies at you.

FETCH SKILL 11 STAMINA 6

If you make a successful strike against the Fetch, both
you and the creature suffer the usual 2 points of
damage to your STAMINA because your metal sword
conducts the energy emitted by the Fetch as it shorts
oull If you win and you have fought the creature
using a magical or blessed weapon, that weapon has
lost any special powers it once had since the Fetch fed
off its magical energy. The Fetch destroyed, you leave
the clearing by the only exit. Turn to 59.

6-7

6
You have destroyed the evil source of the plague in
Aryll: the Canker is no more. Restore 2 Luck points.
With the Canker dead, the Plague Zombies have
become lifeless corpses again. You waste no time in
escaping from the crypt. Gerog is surprised but elated
to see you and takes you back to the village, where
you are given a hero’s welcome. The elders invite you
to a banquet to be held that evening where you will
be guest of honour. Remembering your search for the
Black Grimoire, you decline their offer and tell them of
your quest. They cannot tel! you anything as to the
whereabouts of the book; however, as a reward for
saving Aryll, the elders agree to reveal to you the
secret location of the barrow of Gwythain the Protec-
tor; it lies high in the hills to the south and is guarded
by a dmidic sect who worship the Earth-mother. The
warrior-priest is said to be buried there with his
sword, Deliverer, the Blessed Blade. Manoc tells you
that such a weapon would be an invaluable aid against
the evil of Nazek and his Demons, Before you leave
Aryll, the elders give you a bag containing 6 Gold
Pieces, enough Provisions for 3 meals and another
lantern (if you have lost yours). Will you now make
the long diversion south to Gwythain’s barrow (turn
to 96) or set off directly westwards out of Aryll (tum

to 359)?

7
‘That is correct,’ says the High Priest, “You are worthy.’

He commands the druids to release you. If you have
the Pilgrim’s Staff, turn to 196. Otherwise, tur to 271.

8-10

8
As you hoped, the gate has been left unguarded.
Keeping close to the wall, you run out of the town
and away, Turn to 300.

After half an hour or so, you catch sight of something
against the night sky, flying towards the village over
the forest. As the shape gets closer, you can see that it
is a robed man sitting astride a pitchfork! This peculiar
means of transportation glides down to the ground at
the edge of the village and, picking up the pitchfork,
the warlock walks over to the wagon. Will you keep
watching (tum to 143) or take the group by surprise
and engage them in combat (tum to 183)?

10

The pilgrims are having a story-telling competition
and at the moment are in fits of laughter as a rather
gaunt-looking man is just concluding a lewd tale about
a blacksmith. His story over, the group invites you to
join in the competition. If you can win it, there are 6
Gold Pieces for the taking. Do you want to enter their
competition (turn to 118), or will you retire to your
room (turn to 179)?

L1-14

14
Standing before you is a three-metre-tall humanoid
with lank, thick green hair, dripping mud and water. It
has ugly, bestial features and strong, muscular arms
which end in sharp talons, With an animal growl the
monster leaps at you. Drawing your sword, you find
yourself fighting for your life against the Fen Beast

FEN BEAST SKILL & STAMINA 10

If you manage to kill the monster, were you sent into
the marsh by a group of farmers? If you were, turn to
86; if you were not, turn to 152.

12

The falcon flies out of the window, catching the raven
in its talons and tearing it wing from wing before it
can escape. Note down the ward ‘Raven’ on your
Adventure Sheet then tum to 50.

13
You begin to sweat profusely and are overcome with
dizziness, and red weals start to break out all over your
skin. The plague is entering its final stages; and if you
cannot stop it now, it will prove fatal, If you have a
Heal-all, turn to 64. If you do not, then you will die in
torment from the plague

14
You kneel at the shrine of Enthus with other pilgrims

and pray for the departed martyrs soul and the success-
ful completion of your quest. As you leave, you may
place as many Gold Pieces as you wish in the coffer
15-17

beside the shrine. (Make a note on your Adventure
Sheet of how great an offering you give.) You leave
the temple and go back down the hill to the Market
Square. Turn to 131 and choose another option.

15
You rise early and, thanking Talpas again for his
hospitality, take your leave of the Molekin. However,
before going, Talpas gives you enough Provisions for
2 meals. You rejoin the road and continue on your
way. Turn to 57.

16
The topaz glints in the sunlight and, as you place the
pendant round your neck, suddenly you feel particu-
larly confident. You are wearing an Amulet of Bravery,
which means that before the next two battles you
fight, you may increase your Attack Strength by 1
point. Restore 1 Luck point. Return to 8o.

17
Although the wooden floor of the hayloft is rotten
with age, it holds up under your weight as you run
across the boards and dive out through the opening
You hit the ground, several metres below, just as the
barn roof collapses in a flurry of sparks (lose 2
STAMINA points because of the fall). You listen to the
dying screeches of the rats until they are drowned by
the roaring flames and the barn is just a smoking ruin
Cheering, the villagers take you back to the elders.
This time it is the woman, Malva, who addresses you.
‘We thank you on behalf of all the village,’ she says.

18-19

‘With the rats gone there is hope again for the people
of Aryn’s Hill,’ What was that Malva said? If you have
heard the name ‘Aryn’s Hill’ before, turn to 180. If you
have not, turn to 60.

18

Gwythain the Protector was a warrior-priest, follower
of the Swordbearer. He acquired his title as a result of
his many brave and heroic deeds in defending the
people of Ruddlestone from the servants of darkness,
vanquishing Demons and evil shades with his Blessed
Blade, Deliverer. When he died, Gwythain was laid to
rest, dressed in his holy armour, in a barrow not far
trom Hallow’s Well itself. An illustration accompanies
the account and depicts a knight in silver armour
delivering a fatal blow to a red, winged Demon, with
nis mighty sword that glows with a blue light. Turn to
68

19
The people of Selwick know that many evil things
stalk the hours of darkness so they have already
bolted their doors and settled down for the night.
However, a fight is still shining in the window of one
farmhouse, at the edge of the village, and you decide
to ask if they will give you a bed for the night. The
young farmer and his wife, whose names you learn are
Liam and Isa, invite you in warmly and share their
meal of rabbit stew with you (restore 4 STAMINA
points). ‘It’s nice to ‘ave someone come visit us,’ says
Liam. “You see, people have stayed clear of the farm
since it ‘appened.’ Since what happened, you ask.
20

‘Since we were cursed by Mistress Crowfoot, the local
witch. Everyone in the village is frightened of ‘er,’ he
continues. “Two weeks ago she come to see us, sayin’
she wanted to buy our south field; only that’s our best
bit of land, so we said no, She went off saying if we
didn’t sell it to ‘er in a week, we'd be sorry. We didn’t
give in — but then last Earthday things started goin’
wrong. First my best ploughshare broke, then the milk
started to go off, and now some of my cattle are
dying.’

Just then, out of the comer of your eye you glimpse
something moving in the shadows of the kitchen. As
you watch, a tiny humanoid covered in bright red fur
runs out from behind a chair. It has two small horns
growing out of its forehead, an ugly snout, clawed
hands and a tail. It scampers over to a bucket of milk
against the wall and dips a claw into it. You jump up,
and the creature runs back into the shadows,

‘It's a Grimalkin,’ says Isa. ‘Tt taints anythin’ it touches.
Now you see how Mistress Crowfoot torments us!’

True enough, the milk has curdled and now tastes
sour. Suddenly the imp leaps out of the shadows at
you. Test your Skill, If you succeed, turn to 89. If you
fail, turn to 167.

C2>

21

20
The jester shows you that both his hands are empty;
he clenches his left hand into a fist then opens it to
display a red-painted wooden ball. He passes the ball
quickly between his hands and it is gone! ‘Which hand
is it in? Coxcomb asks, both fists tightly clenched
before you. Will you choose his right hand (turn to
202) or his left (turn to 110)?

21

You cross the stone bridge that spans the Grimiry
River, leaving Fenford, and emerge from the forest.
The road rises through barren moorland towards the
hills, stil] a day’s walk away in the west. Dusk falls and
there is a definite chill in the air as you reach a small
wood to the left of the road. Through the still of the
night you can hear the sound of a fiddle coming from
inside the wood. Do you want to investigate the
source of the music (turn to 293) or do you prefer to
settle down for the night (turn to 135)?
22-24

22
As you leave the entertainers’ square, you pass a man
sitting crosslegged on the ground beside the road. He
is wearing a cloak, his face hidden by the hood, and
perched on one shoulder is a black rat. The man is
playing the pipes and some passers-by have thrown
coins into a basket in front of him. As you walk past
the piper, the tune he is playing suddenly changes and
your head begins to spin: the music is having a
hypnotic effect on you. Test your Skill, If you succeed,
tum to 199, If you fail, turn to 133.

25
You urge your horse forward into the dense woodland,
eager to catch your quarry. Test your Luck. If you are
Lucky, turn to 208; if you are Unlucky, turn to 379

24
With the Revenant destroyed, the evil spirit animating
Enthus’s bones is banished from this place, ‘Thank you
for freeing my earthly remains, says the Spirit of
Enthus. There is a click, and a secret compartment
opens at the base of the sarcophagus. Inside you find a
silver amulet and an ancient piece of parchment which
iooks like a page from a book. “Take my Holy Amulet
and that page torn from the Black Grimoire itself. On it
is the Spell of Locking I used to close the casket, but
‘et us hope you will not need it.” You observe that the
page number of the parchment is 376 (note this down).
Add 1 FAITH point and restore 1 tuck point for
acquiring these items. ‘Now I may once again rest in
peace, and you must be on your way if the Kurakil is

, =
25-26

to be defeated.’ With these words the spirit fades and
you are alone in the tomb. Quickly you leave the
sepulchre. Turn to 112

25
The door slams shut behind you and you hear several
heavy bolts grate ominously into place. The cell beneath
the blockhouse is cold and damp. The only illumination
comes from a tiny, barred window at street-level, high
out of reach. ‘At last, someone to talk to.’ Startled by
the voice, you peer into the gloom at the back of the
cell. Sitting in the corner, dressed in old rags, is a filthy
old man with long, wild, grey hair. ‘Old Gerald ‘ere ran
out of things to talk about years ago,’ says the man,
pointing to the wall opposite. There, hanging from
rusted manacles, is a skeleton, yellow with age. ‘I’m
Cynric. They call me the Mad Beggar’ The old man
certainly appears to be mad, so you turn your attention
to finding a way of escape. Looking through the small
grille in the door, you can see that your backpack and
sword have been left on a table in the chamber beyond
your cell. Other grilled doors open off this main
chamber, with a flight of spiral stone steps leading up
to the rooms at street-level. The chamber appears to be
unattended. ‘If yer wanting to leave so soon, I might
just be able to ’elp yer,’ says Cynric. If you accept the
mad beggar's help, turn to 106. If you would rather find
a way out yourself, turn to 30.

26
In sheer panic she tells you everything, The Mask is
the leader of all the outlaws and brigands who frequent

27-28

the forest. Some, like her, act as his lieutenants, patrol-
ling the roads and paths of the forest with their own
bands on the lookout for suitable victims to rob. The
Mask himself returned from just such an excursion
round Hallow's Well last night and is now back in the
outlaw camp which she tells you how to reach, After
tying up the outlaw, you must decide whether to
make the diversion and go after the Mask (tum to
149), or press on in search of the Black Grimoire (turn
to 1§8).

27
Shouting out the number, you hear the hags scream
and suddenly the gale stops. The witches’ bodies seem
to dissolve into the air and their screams die away
with the wind. Regain 1 Luck point for defeating the
Bedlam Hags. The rest of the night passes peacefully,
and at first light you are on your way again; turn to
280.

28

It is fate afternoon when you reach Claybury, but the
sky over the village is almost black with boiling
stormclouds. The Demafrauge is supposed to be hidden
in the monastery here, so Nazek must be here too,
with the Black Grimoire. Only a few hours remain until
nightfall, when Shekka’s Moon will rise once more, so
you must meet up with Karad and the Resistance as
quickly as possible. But where will you look for
them, at a circular tower standing on the outskirts
of the village {turn to 336) or somewhere else (tum to
289)?
29-30

29
All the stalls you would expect to find in a market are
here, but your attention is drawn to one displaying
the sign ‘Relics for Sale’. If you want to take a closer
look at this stall, turn to 80. If you would rather keep
looking round the market, turn to 218.

30
The options available to you are to call for the guard
then try to overpower him (turn to 115), try to break
the door down (turn to 47), or wait for one of the
guards to bring you some food and overpower him
(turn to 3265).

|

35L

51

You and Sam board his raft and soon you are gliding
along the marshy waterways of the fens, It is not long
before the tributary you are on runs into a large, mist-
covered lake — Miremere. Sam steers the raft out
across the still waters towards the middle of the lake.
Through the mist a small, wooded island appears
Soon you reach the island and, while Sam waits by the
shore, you disembark to look for Enthus’s tomb.

At the foot of a wooded hill you find what must be
the entrance to the tomb: a moss-covered granite door
set into the hill, No one has been here in years.
Pushing hard against it, the granite slab eventually
swings open with a hollow boom. Lighting your
lantem, you step through the stone doorway and
oroceed down a steep spiral staircase. At the bottom
of the steps is a high-ceilinged rectangular chamber.
Light enters the cold room by a single tiny window
and you can see no other exits. In the centre of the
chamber is a stone sarcophagus bearing the life-size
effigy of a priest lying with his hands together as if at
prayer. Two granite candlesticks stand on either side
of the sarcophagus, although the candles have long
been extinguished. Carefully you heave the lid to one
side. Lying with hands folded, like the statue, and still
wearing the martyr’s priestly robes, are the earthly
remains of Enthus, Servant of Good. There is nothing
else to be found in the tomb, Will you leave now (tum
0 112), or will you try and invoke the spirit of the
oriest so that he may aid you in your quest (fur to
105)?

327-34

32

You collapse, almost unconscious. The acolytes seem
to be pleased by your condition and continue their
procession through the town. Although you are not
dead, the amount of venom in your body does mean
that you are dying. If you have a Heal-all, turn to 182.
If you do not, your adventure will end here in the
street.

33
While you are fighting the Canker, the Plague Zombies
surround you. There is nothing you can do to defend
yourself against so many of the Undead, and you
perish under their blows. Soon you will rise again as a
Plague Zombie and join in the assault on Aryl] under
your new master’s command.

34
You walk up to the bar where the work-hardened

landlady is serving. A pint of ale will cost 1 Gold
Piece and restore 1 STAMINA point. Looking around,
you are searching for someone who may be able to
provide you with useful information. Sitting alone by
a window is a tubby friar, well past his prime. Also
sitting by himself is a mysterious man wearing smart
but practical black clothes. In the corner, a group of
local farmers are discussing some important matter in a
conspiratorial manner. Do you want to talk to:

The landlady? Turn to 81
The friar? Turn to 213
The man in black? Tum to 348

The farmers? Turn to 188
35-36

35
You take the cup containing the Healing Infusion in

both hands and quickly gulp it down. You feel warm
inside, but then your senses begin to numb. You are
overcome by dizziness and cannot prevent yourself
from falling to the ground. Just as you slip into
unconsciousness you see the faces of Hemlock and
Hogweed bending over you, still with sickly smiles |. .

You come round in a smelly, narrow alleyway. A
quick search of your belongings reveals the absence of
all your gold, any herbs you may have had and the
Heal-all if you had one (lose 2 Luck points for your
misfortune, whatever else you lost). You step out of
the alley into a street that leads to the West Gate on
the edge of town. As you don’t want to waste any more
time here, you decide against avenging yourself or
the thieving apothecaries and set off towards the West
Gate, Turn to g8.

36
You hit a bam roof and crash through, your death
plunge being halted by the hay beneath (lose 6
STAMINA points). Staggering out of the wrecked barn
you find yourself on the very edge of the village of
Selwick. Turn to 19.

37-38

37
Dusk is falling when you come in sight of a cluster of

buildings at the edge of the forest. You are just
thinking hopefully that you may be able to find a bed
for the night in the village when you hear a wagon
approaching at speed from the direction of Hallow’s
Well. You throw yourself out of the way just in time
as the covered wagon hurtles past and carries on with
no sign of stopping. Suddenly one wheel hits a large
rock in the road, almost overtuming the wagon. As
the vehicle rights itself, a crate, loosened by the jolt,
tumbles out of the back and, hitting the ground,
breaks open. Curious, you walk over to the wreckage
of the crate and see that it is full of dried lizards,
certainly not a creature native to the northern king-
doms. Something strange is going on here,

Entering the village of Driteham at a run, you see
people rushing into their homes until no one is left
outside. ‘Quick, in here!’ a woman shouts to you from
one house, ‘or the Lurcher will get you!’ Will you take
the woman's advice and enter her house {turn to 205)
or stay outside and find out what is going on (tum to
78)?

38
You learn that the Wodewitch is a mad old hag who
lives a few kilometres into the forest; the villagers also
tell you how to find the well, which is near a derelict
mill. If you want to pay a visit to the Wodewitch, turn
to 74. If you prefer to go to the well and tackle the
Devilworm, tum to 242.

_ |
39-41

39
The bear lunges at you as you run to grab a torch,

knocking you to the ground (lose 2 STAMINA points).
You have no choice but to use your sword against the
beast, Turn to 75.

40
You tip the powder over the cat. It spits at you and
scratches you with its sharp claws (lose 2 STAMINA

points). Tum to 132.

41
‘That's right,’ laughs Cynric, ‘A key! And that’s how
I'm going to ’elp yer.’ The old man walks over to the
skeleton and pulls a loose stone out of the wall beside
it, He reaches into the hole and takes out a small

41

bundle of sackcloth. Unwrapping it, he reveals a finely
made skeleton key. ‘This fell through the window one
day. Someone's loss, but your gain, ‘eh? Gerald ‘ere’s
bin lookin’ after it for me.’ Cynric gives you the key
and, having first made sure no one is about, you
excitedly unlock the cell door. Cynric takes the key
back and, surprised, you ask why he himself doesn’t
escape. ‘I’m not as mad as I may seem,’ he says. ‘Why
risk it on the streets when I've got a bed and three
meals a day ‘ere? Isn‘t that right, Gerald?’

You smile and cautiously collect your backpack and
sword from the chamber outside your cell. At that
moment a female voice behind you says, ‘Stranger,
share your good fortune and release me.” You look
around and espy a girl’s face at another cel] door.
Remembering that she is a prisoner, you ask her who
she is and why she is locked up here. ‘My name is Tira
and ] was apprenticed to the witch, Mistress Crowfoot
of Selwick. However, I saw the error of my ways and
fled from her. | came to Hallow's Well to seek forgive-
ness and warm the authorities that a huge coven is
forming in the hills to the west. But they didn’t
believe me and locked me away here.’

You ask Tira about the Black Grimoire. Naturally she
has heard of it, but she has never seen it and does not
know if the coven have it. She pleads with you to
telease her with the keys to her cell, which are on a
hook on the wall. Your decision really depends on
how much you can trust a witch, even if she was only
an apprentice. If you release Tira, turn to $3; if you
prefer not to, turn to 206.
42

42

Angry at your surviving their test, the acolytes ad-
vance towards you, wielding various implements of
torture. Their chief disciple shouts out, ‘Brothers and
sisters, the unbeliever must be purified!’ Two of them
close in on you, swinging cruelly spiked whips. You
must defend yourself against them both at the same
time.

SKILL STAMINA
First ACOLYTE . 6 7
Second ACOLYTE 7 6

[Ff you win, the other Acolytes of Pain, although they
enjoy physical suffering, are not quite so keen on
death, and they flee Tum to 173.

43

43
Strange croaking noises and animal cries echo across

the fens as you wander along the endless, twisting
paths. Suddenly you hear something moving near by
Heart racing, you stop to survey the stagnant pools
and clumps of reeds. Roll one die then consult the
table below.

Roll Encounter

1 The grey, bloated body of a Giant Slug slithers
on to the path, Eight metres long and three
metres across, the vile creature’s boneless body
ripples as it raises its repulsive head. Suddenly a
huge globule of saliva shoots out of the Slug’s
mouth. Test your Skill to avoid being hit by it, If
you fail, the poisonous stuff hits you, burning
like acid (lose 5 STAMINA points), You will have
to fight the creature before you can carry on
along the path.

GIANT SLUG SKILL 7 STAMINA 13

2 A group of green-and-brown two-legged am-

phibians leap out of the reeds and attack you
Although only half a metre tall, the Mudclaws
are ravenous and you must fight all four of
them at the same time.

MUDCLAWS SKILL 5 STAMINA 4

3 You tread on the tail of a Marsh Viper, which is
resting in the ooze, It rears up and bites your
calf before slithering off deeper into the swamp.
Lose 4 STAMINA points.
43

4 Several thick roots suddenly break through the
path and wrap themselves round your legs
breaking the skin (lose 2 sTAMINA points). You
must fight this bizarre carnivorous plant

ROOTS SKILL 7 STAMINA &

5 Wading through the rank waters of the marsh,
several disgusting Swamp Leeches latch on to
your legs to feed Roll one die and deduct that
many points from your STAMINA.

*

6 No encounter.

Each encounter can occur only once. If you roll an
encounter that has already taken place, roll again. If
you survive the encounter, turn to 257.

44-45

44
You politely decline Lady Attana’s offer and set off
alone. The morning is grey with an overcast sky, but
the previous night’s storm has abated. You pass along
a stretch of road sheltered by the canopy of a wood.
By late afternoon you are descending out of the wood
towards the River Sanct. On the other side, the shrine
town of Hallow’s Well is clearly visible, a mixture of
timber and stone houses competing for space within
the confines of the old town wall, Before you can
reach the town, however, you must cross a wide stone
bridge that spans the Sanct. One of the end-pillars of
the bridge incorporates a small altar to Fulkra, patron
god of travellers, If you want to make an offering at
the altar, tum to 275. Otherwise, you cross the bridge
and enter the town by the eastern Pilgrim’s Gate; turn

to 254.

45
‘Dead or alive. Makes no difference to us,’ says the

woman calmly. ‘Now do as I told you!’ Will you:

Comply and do as she says? Turn to 232
Make a run for it? Turn to 128
Still stand your ground? Turn to 92
46-48

46

Leaving the farmhouse, you trek across country, follow-
ing Liarn‘s directions, until you reach Paddocks Wood
Creeping through the trees, you come to a moonlit
clearing and one of the most unusual sights you have
ever seen. In the middle of the clearing stands Mistress
Crowfoot's cottage, perched on a single, gigantic bird’s
foot. The only way in that you can see is through a
trapdoor under the cottage. No one seems to be on
guard, so you step into the clearing towards the bizarre
structure. Suddenly the crow’s foot spins around to
face you. Frozen with surprise, you watch the cottage
hop towards you across the clearing. You shake your-
self out of your trance and draw your sword, ready to
defend yourself against the talons of the cottage.

CROW'S FOOT SKILL 8 STAMINA 8

If you win, turn to 228.

47
This is a foolish course of action. You charge the cell

door and slam into it with terrific force. However, the
door was built to withstand such attacks and does not
give at all. Your shoulder did not stand up so well to
the charge (lose 1 STAMINA point). Now will you call
for the guard (turn to 115), wait for a guard to bring
you a meal and ambush him (tum to 325), or tum to
the beggar for help (turn to 344)?

48
There are two ways leading west out of Fenford. The
most regularly used is the road to Tallow. The other is
49-50

the path into the area of marshland, south-west of the
village, known as Blackmire, beyond which is the
village of Selwick. The road would be the quicker and
more direct route to your goal, while Blackmire is 4
treacherous place, although many rare plants grow in
its fetid hollows. Will you follow the road to Tallow
(turn to 22) or will you brave the perils of Blackmire
(turn to 333)?

49

As the water fills the gourd, the flask begins to glow
with a golden light and feels warm in your hands. You
have been truly blessed. You now have in your grasp
a Heal-all, a universal remedy against all ills. Whenever
you want to use it (which you can do only once, but
at any time except during combat) unless the text
states otherwise, you may restore both your STAMINA
and skILt scores to their Jnitial levels and regain up tc
2 Luck points. Filled with new hope that even the
gods are on your side, you leave the temple and
return to the Market Square. Turn to 131 and choose
another option.

50

With her familiars defeated, Mistress Crowfoot cowers
before you, unable to move because of the Shackles.
‘Where is the Black Grimoire?’ you ask, drawing your
sword to help the witch remember.

‘Nazek has it in Claybury,’ Mistress Crowfoot whim-
pers. ‘He's going to use it at the Sabbat tomorrow
night.’

‘Tell me what the Sabbat is!’ you demand.

51-52

‘It’s a meeting of the Cauldron of Midnight, Nazek’s
coven, and it’s going to be held at the ruined monas-

tery,’

You have found out what you wanted to know (regain
1 Luck point). A swift search of the cottage tums up a
rune-carved bone ring which you may take if you
wish. Unshackling Mistress Crowfoot’s toes, you take
her back to Selwick, where Liam and Isa are waiting
with the other villagers, They hurriedly secure the evil
witch in the village lock-up then celebrate until well
past midnight, You are given a Healing Salve by the
local wise man which you may use once, at any me,
except during combat, to restore up to 6 STAMINA
points, You excuse yourself and retire for the night;
tomorrow will undoubtedly be a hard day.

At first light you leave Selwick, The road leads to a
junction with another from the south; here you take
the turning westwards. Turn to 280

51

The acolytes grab your arms and legs so that you
cannot move. Their leader turns to you and says,
‘Unbeliever, what will it be? The Test of the Wheel or
the Test of Scorpions?’ Will you reply, ‘The Test of
the Wheel’ (turn to 192) or ‘The Test of Scorpions’
(turn to 334)?

52
Seeing that the Devilworm is no more, the people of
Mussuck praise you for your bravery and ask what

53-55

they can give you in return (regain 1 LUCK point). You
tell them of your quest, and the crowd becomes
hushed and serious. None of them knows anything
about the Black Grimoire, but then one of the men
speaks up. ‘Have this,’ he says, handing you two small,
hinged wooden panels. ‘tt’s something of a family
heirloom, but you need it more than I do,’ The panels
are painted with scenes from a holy man’s life and fill
you with encouragement (add i FAITH point). You are
also given enough Provisions for 4 meals by a woman
Packing the diptych carefully away in your backpack,
you leave Mussuck, heading west. Turn to 264.

53
You may have saved yourself once from the plague,

but in the end there is nothing you can do to stop it.
You die in agony.

54
Your sword cannot harm the insubstantial form of the

Wraith Rider, The spectral creature cuts you down
where you stand, and the nightmarish horse tramples
your broken body into the ground. Your adventure is
over

55
In the rush to get out of the room you trip over and

end up being trampled by everyone else fleeing from
the bear, leaving you bruised and battered (lose 3
STAMINA points). You pick yourself up, only for the
door to be slammed in your face and barred from the
outside. You have no choice but to face the angry
beast. Turn to 164.

56-58

56

Confidently you raise the reliquary containing the
sage’s bones above your head, but this does nothing
to halt the advance of the Beast. Unknown to you, the
bones are not human but those of a pig and they have
absolutely no power whatsoever. The swindling half-
EIf may have doomed you (lose 2 Luck points). Turn
to 250.

57
By mid-moming the road has veered round westwards,

leading you further into the hills, and you soon catch
sight of the village of Aryll. The village is shrouded
by the smoke from several bonfires and a deathly
stillness hangs over the whole area. Stumbling along
the road towards you is a woman with a huge pack of
possessions tied to her back. As you approach, she
starts waving you away and shouting, ‘Stay away,
stranger! Do you not know there is plague in Aryll?
Flee while you have the chancel’ Will you heed the
woman's waming and change course before it is too
late (turn to 246), or will you enter the village to see if
you can help in any way (turn to 162)?

58
Beyond the archway is an alcove in which lies a stone
coffin. On its lid a sword is etched in high relief. This
could be the burial casket of the warrior-priest
Gwythain, or it could hold another guardian of the
tomb. Do you want to open the coffin (turn to 210) or
will you Jeave it and go on down the tunnel (turn to

134)?
59-60

59
The haze clears slightly and you find yourself following

a stream into the heart of Blackmire. Through the
gloom you can just make out what fooks like a hut of
woven reeds. Moving closer, you see it is covered
with mud and grass, and a mossy covering hangs over
the entrance While you are studying this strange
dwelling, you hear the water of the stream lapping
against its banks as a raft approaches, steered by a
cloaked figure wielding a long pole. The raft comes to
a halt and the figure steps on to the bank. Seeing you,
it comes closer and pulls back its hood. The creature
standing in front of you is greenish in colour and is
completely hairless, with a swollen belly, bulbous eyes
and skin which looks scaly. Its hands end in claws and
it has webbed feet. The creature gurgles something
incomprehensible, and you see it has sharp, pointed
teeth. Distrustful of anyone who chooses to live in
Blackmire, will you attack the creature (turn to 76) or
try to communicate with it (turn to 307)?

60

The elders invite you to attend a banquet, to be held
that evening with yourself as guest of honour, but you
decline since less than two days remain in which to
find the Black Grimoire. You ask the elders about the
book, but they know only that it is an infamous tome
of evil spells from legend, and they know nothing of
its present whereabouts. Before you leave Aryll, how-
ever, you are given a bag containing 6 Gold Pieces
and enough Provisions for 3 meals, as a reward for
your bravery. Turn to 359.
61-63

61
At first light you leave the hospitality of the farmer
and his wife and set off along the road out of Selwick
This track leads to a junction with another from the
south, where you take the turning westwards into the
hills. Turn to 280.

62

The thief takes two items from your backpack (cross
any two items off your Adventure Sheet), Now turn to

313.

63
The instant the powder touches the rat, the creature
begins to swell and change shape rapidly. Sitting
dazed, on the floor in front of you is a middle-agec
woman wearing a hooded robe — Mistress Crowfoot!
Do you have a set of shackles? If you have, tum tc
350; if you haver’t, turn to 181.

64-66

64

You quickly gulp down the contents of the flask and
feel a golden warmth permeate your whole body as
the panacea destroys the plague within you. Reduce
your INFECTION score to zero and restore up to ©
points of STAMINA, but ignore any other instructions
given as to the use of the Heal-all (cross the Heal-all
off your Adventure Sheet; you may not use it again).
Now retum to the paragraph you came from and
continue your adventure

65
Roll three dice. If the total is less than, or equal fo,
your STAMINA score, turn to 177. If the total is greater
than your STAMINA score, turn to 294.

66
‘Greetings, traveller,’ says the man. ‘] am on my way
to Selwick. May I take you there on my horse? You
do not want to be out on the road after dusk in these
67-68

parts, | can assure you.’ Do you wish to accept the
rider's offer (turn to 233), or will you politely decline
(turn to 485)?

67

As the guard looks in the other barrels, he is suddenly
startled by a cat and bumps into your barrel with
enough force to knock it over, There is nothing you
can do as your barrel rolls down the street, knocking
over the other barrels in front of it. You hear shouts of
surprise as the militiamen are confronted by the hurt-
ling barrels; many collide with the men, sending them
flying. Your barrel picks up speed until at last it
crashes into the corner of a house, You drag yourself
out of the wreckage, bruised and battered (lose 2
STAMINA points). Finding the gate now unattended,
you quickly flee the town. Tum to 300,

68
When you've finished reading, you see that Brother
Calamus is anxious that you should not delay any
longer in the library. Do you want to leave the abbey

69-71

immediately (turn to 277), or will you visit the herb
garden first (turn to 366)?

ba
The mass of fighting bodies parts and you find yourself
confronting a grotesque, goat-headed Demon wielding
a heavy spiked mace.

GOAT-HEADED DEMON sKiLLQ_ STAMINA 10
If you defeat the hellspawn, turn to 397.

70

Using the tinderbox used to light your lantern, you
set fire to the hay in the cart. From a safe distance you
watch as the haycart becomes a blazing conflagration
in seconds and the fire spreads to the stables. Horses
break free of their stalls while panic-stricken outlaws
run around in the courtyard, trying to douse the
flames. With all this confusion going on round you, it
is an easy matter to enter the keep undetected. Turn
to 125

71

As you approach, the figure remains perfectly still.
You turn the body over and are shocked to see that
the man’s face is covered in red, inflamed blotches, as
are his hands. The man slowly opens his eyes and
says, ‘Stranger, if you are going to rob me | cannot
stop you; but you will be for ever cursed, for I have
the plague.’ If you still want to help the man by
giving him some of your Provisions, turn to 168.
Otherwise, turn to 126.

72-74

72

You find the Grimalkin, trapped in a corner of the
stable. It hisses as you approach and lashes out at you
with its claws. You have no choice but to fight the
Imp.

GRIMALKIN SKILL 6 STAMINA 3

If you win, turn to 124.

73
You fend off the disease-ridden Undead with your

sword as they try to grasp you with clawed hands
Fight them one at a time.

SKILL STAMINA
First PLAGUE ZOMBIE 6 yi
Second PLAGUE ZOMBIE 7 6

If you win, add 4 to your INFECTION score. Putting all
your weight against the doors, you push them open
far enough to squeeze through. Tum to 259.

74
Walking through the forest, you feel uneasy, as if

hundreds of pairs of eyes are following your every
move. Soon you see a rocky knoll appearing between
the trees. Leaning precariously against one side of the
knoll is a hovel made out of wood and covered with
moss and bracken. A thin trail of smoke rises from a
hole in the roof. This must be the Wodewitch’s abode,
Peering in through a grubby window you can see no
one inside so, trying the door, you enter the hovel.
75

The dwelling is dirty and untidy, furnished with a
crude table, a chair and a straw-covered bed, Stackec
on shelves and tucked away in hollows in the side o-
the knoll are numerous pots and jars containing pre-
pared ingredients for the Wodewitch’s diabolical con-
coctions, On the table is a pestle and mortar and z
collection of strange plants and fungi. You spin arouné
as the door opens behind you

Standing in the doorway, holding a pile of brown
mushrooms in her gathered-up robes, is a stooped ol¢
hag. Her hair is dirty and matted, her features are
angular and her skin is a sickly green colour, Seeing
you, the Wodewitch drops the mushrooms and
screeches something incomprehensible at you. Taking
a gourd from a pocket in her robes, she pours some o7
its contents on to the earthen floor. Some of the liquid
splashes on to a cockroach and you stare in horror as,
with a disgusting, stretching sound, the creature's
body expands until it is over two metres in length
Clicking its mandibles, the gigantic insect scuttles to-
wards you. You must fight it, The cockroach’s carapace
is as hard as plate-mail armour. Each time you hit i:
you inflict only 1 point of damage (2 points if you use
LUCK in this battle and are Lucky, but no points if you

are Unlucky).
GIANT COCKROACH SKILL 7 STAMINA

If you win, turn to 316.

75
The animal puts on an aggressive show, rising up on

76-97

its hind legs in order to attack you with its razor-sharp
claws.

BAITED BEAR SKILL 9 STAMINA 8

If you defeat the creature, tum to 382.

76
‘| warm you, stranger,’ the creature says in your own
language as it sees you draw your sword, ‘I am not as
defenceless as it may appear.’ Will you ignore the
creature’s threat and press home your attack (turn to
247), or will you take a more friendly attitude (turn to

307)?

77
You leap up on to the haycart and snatch the reins

from the farmer, who is roused from his torpor. You
urge the horse directly at the gate. In surprise, the
horse lumbers forward. However, the gate is closing
quickly. Test your Luck, If you are Lucky, turn to 127. If
you are Unlucky, turn to 282.
78-79

78
The village is completely deserted. As you explore the
streets of Driteham a heart-rending
the stillness of the night. However much you dis-
like the idea, if you are to find the source of this
trouble you must go in the direction of the moaning
Cautiously, creeping past the houses, eventually you
come to the edge of the village, close to the edge
of the forest. There, standing beside an abandoned
barn, is the wagon that ran you off the road! Watching
from round the comer of a house, you see a short, squat
man — and next to him is one of the most ghastly
creatures you have ever seen, It is at least two and a
half metres tall and is humanoid in appearance, dressed
in a long cloak; but it is physically deformed, with one
hunched shoulder and one leg shorter than the other.
The creature’s skin is so pale that it is almost white
and its eyes are sunk into dark sockets. As you watch,
it opens its large, misshapen mouth and lets out

attack the horror at once (turn to 163} or will you wait
and see what develops (turn to gj?

79
You and Sam board his raft and are soon gliding along
the marshy waterways of the fens You sail round the
edge of the mist-covered lake. Miremere, as far as the
western shore. Sam tells you the quickest and safest
route out of the marsh and, thanking him again for his
help, you wave goodbye to your new friend.

You emerge from Blackmire on the road to Selwick.

80

Dusk is falling when you catch sight of the village in
the distance, You can hear the pounding of hoofs on
the road behind you, and a horse appears out of the
darkness, The animal is a fine, black stallion, and
mounted on its back is a well-dressed man wearing a
hooded cape. If you have the potion Clearsee, you
may if you wish drink it now by turning to the
paragraph with the sare number as the page on which
the recipe for Clearsee can be found in Sam’s book. If
you do not have it, or if you do not want to drink it
turn to 66,

80
As you approach the stall, the vendor behind it nubs
his hands together greedily and under his hood you
see pointed ears. The half-Elf welcomes you and
eagerly explains what relics he has for sale. ‘Tn this
casket,” he says, pointing to an omate reliquary, ‘rest
the bones of # sage from the Mountains.
Many sought his advice, and his wisdom may be
imparted to you through his remains,’ The man holds
up @ tapestry embroidered with threads of all colours,
including silver and gold. {t depicts a group of pilgrims
undergoing many trials on their journey to a sacred
shrine. This was made by a wife and daughter to
celebrate the husband's perilous, but ultimately success-
ful, pilgrimage to the shrine of Achilla at the edge of
Lake Libra in Analand.” He also points out a bottle
containing the blood of a priest, the small, pocket-
sized portrait of a bishop, a fragment of the shroud of
Aline the Innocent (which looks suspiciously like an
old piece of linen) and a yellow topaz pendant. After
81

you have bought what you want, turn to the appropri-
ate paragraphs to find out what you now possess.

Sage’s bones 20 Gold Pieces Turn to 140
Analand tapestry 15 Gold Pieces Turn to 244
Priest's blood 8 Gold Pieces Turn to 398
Bishop's portrait 6 Gold Pieces Turn to 303
Shroud 3 Gold Pieces Tum to 197
Topaz pendant 12 Gold Pieces Turn to 16

When you have finished at this stall, you continue to
make your way round the market. Turn to 218.

81

Meg, the landlady, is an amiable woman and she chats
freely about trade and the weather. She also tells you
about a monster that is living in the area of marshland
near Fenford known as Blackmire: it has been terroriz-
ing local farms and carrying off livestock. You decide
you can trust her, so you tell her a little about your
quest. ‘Witchcraft and Demons,’ she says with a shiver.
‘We don’t ‘ave much to do with that sort of thing
round ‘ere. If it’s ‘elp with witches you want, that man
over there in black is a Witch-hunter. He arrived ‘ere
two days ago but ’e’s a miserable one and doesn’t talk
to anyone much. Barnabas, the friar, is our local ‘oly
man, 'E’s a clever ‘un, so ‘e might be able to ‘elp you.’
Now, will you:

Talk to Barnabas, the friar? Tum to 223
Talk to the Witch-hunter? Turn to 348
Talk to the farmers? Tum to 188

Leave the Brindled Cat and Fenford? Tur to 48

82-84

82
The crossbow bolt strikes you between the ribs. The
shock makes you release your grip on the wall, and
you fall into the street (lose 4 sTAMINA points), where
the militiamen seize you and take you to the nearest
blockhouse. Turn to 25

83

You unlock the cell door and Tira runs out happily
efore you have a chance to change your mind.
‘Thank you, stranger,’ she says. ‘I owe you my life, as I
would surely have been burnt as a witch if you had
not granted me my freedom. In return, I'm afraid I can
only offer you help against my mistress.’ You ask Tira
to tell you as much as she can. She puts a hand into
her ragged robes and pulls out a small jar. ‘If you
should ever meet Mistress Crowfoot, she will no
doubt try to trick you by changing her shape, for she
has powers of transformation. If she does so, you must
sprinkle some of the powder from this jar over her to
keep her in human form.’

You take the jar and thank Tira. The two of you
creep easily past the guards who are not expecting
anyone to escape, and you part company outside the
town walls, Tum to 132.

84
As you sprinkle the powder over the Grimalkin, the
Imp Jeaps at you and sinks its teeth into your thigh
(lose 2 STAMINA points). Tum to 132.

85-86

85

Dusk falls and, turning down a crowded back-street,
you come to a three-storey stone building with a
painted sign hanging outside declaring that this is
indeed the Pilgrim’s Rest, The sign itself is an excellent
work of art: it shows a pilgrim carrying a scrip and
leaning on a staff, passing a milestone pointing to
Hallow’s Well. You pass underneath it into the court-
yard of the hostelry. There, ostlers lead your horses to
the stables while your party make their way into the
inn.

The interior of the inn is one of traditional oak beams
and whitewashed walls. Tables are set out round the
bar-room, with a large fireplace in the far wall. A few
customers are dotted about, sitting by themselves, and
a large group of well-to-do pilgrims is huddled to-
gether in front of the fireplace. Lady Attana thanks
you again and hands you a purse containing your fee
are of 10 Gold Pieces. She goes over to the group,
\lee at’ inviting you to join them, while her entourage go
b ete Sy upstairs to prepare her quarters and your room. Do

aa you want to join the group of pilgrims (turn to 10),
buy yourself a tankard of ale at the bar (turn to 309),
or leave the bar and retire to your room for the night
turn to 179)?

86
Carrying the monster's head back to Fenford, you find
the farmers waiting anxiously outside the Brindled
Cat. However, when they see you with your grisly
trophy, they let out a cheer, praising Kachasta, patron

$7

of farmers, and bustle you into the inn. There they
buy you a flagon of ale (restore 1 STAMINA point) and
are already beginning to exaggerate the details of
your adventure and their involvement in it. As pay-
ment, the farmers provide you with enough Provisions
for 4 meals, as well as giving you a purse containing
10 Gold Pieces. With their praises stil] ringing in your
ears, you take your leave of the farmers and take the
westerly road out of Fenford. Turn to 21.

87
You lift the marvellous helmet from the ancient skull
and place it on your own head. Your eyes are suddenly
drawn to the hollow eye-sockets of the skull. A chill
goes through you and you hear a harsh whisper say,
‘Leave my body in peace. You have desecrated my

tomb, Sacrilege _..’ As you watch, the skull starts to
crumble and the voice in your head becomes a scream
You pull the helmet from your head and fling it away
You have been badly shaken by this experience (lose 5
FAITH points and 1 Luck point) and prepare to leave
the barrow with all haste. Turn to 343.

88—91

88
One of the guards saw through your plan, but he
stands as the only obstacle between you and freedom.
He runs at you, brandishing his sword.

MILITIAMAN SKILL O STAMINA 8

if you win, you escape from the town through the
South Gate. Tum to 300.

89
You dodge out of the way just in time. The Grimalkin
dies over your shoulder and slips under the kitchen
door. You open the door and run out into the yard,
‘ust in time to see the Imp wriggle under the stable
door. You fling open the door just in time to see the
creature sinking its teeth into the rump of the horse
standing there. The animal kicks out with its hind legs
in pain, Test your Luck. If you are Lucky, turn to 291. If
you are Unlucky, turn to 399

go
The bite the piper’s rat gave you becomes infected by
the contagious plague. Add 2 to your INFECTION
score, Turn to 279.

o1

Zillah, the book says, was a priestess tending the
Scrolls of Cheelah at Shekin, in southern Ruddlestone.
There, she spent many hours every day reading the
annals of history, kept at the shrine. However, it was
while she was reading an obscure manuscript by one
Demetra Ven, that she began to doubt the accuracy of
g2

certain religious teachings. Everyone had always be-
lieved that when the Trickster created the first human
beings, it was Man who was made first. But now
having read the parchment’s interpretations of certain
holy texts, Zillah believed that it was not Man bu:
Woman who had been created first. Zillah soon builz
up a large following of priestesses and other womes
but, when the established religions saw how powerhz
the sect was becoming, they made their move, Zillah
being among the first to be hanged for her heretica.
views. Turn to 68. .

92
‘Your decision.’ The woman nods to the other outlaws
You hear the twang of bowstrings — then feel them
strike you, You fall to the ground; your adventure is

Over.

93-94

93
Your grip on the stone loosens under the force of the
nurricane. You are swept up into the air, higher and
higher, while your body is bombarded by flying debris.
When the ground is out of sight far below, the wind
suddenly stops altogether. The Bedlam Hags on their
Droomsticks cackle as you plummet to your death.

94
The men who attacked you suddenly give up the fight

and flee back into the trees, the masked stranger
galloping after them. If you want to give chase into
che undergrowth, turn to 23; if not, turn to 191.
95

95
Eerie cries echo among the leafless, twisted trees of

the Withered Wood. As you, Karad and the Resistance
wait, hidden in the undergrowth, the crescent moos
rises between the writhing stormclouds, blood-red =
colour: Shekka’s Moon Half an hour passes anc
there is still no sign of the coven. Then a tremendous
crash occurs and the sky is torn apart by a bolt =
lightning that streaks out of the clouds, hitting the
ground away to the south-west. A roar echoes across
the hills and a dark cloud, blacker than the night sk.
rises into the air over Claybury. Soon the who
village is ablaze and the screams of the dying tear =
your heart. The Casket of Shadows has been openes
and the Infernal Beast released. With the Kurakil at the
head of his army of Demons, nothing will preve=:
Nazek the Warlock and his dark goddess dominating
the northern lands. You have failed in your mission

96-97

96

You have been travelling into the hills for only half an
hour or so, when you start to sweat heavily. Red
blotches appear on your skin and some open into
weeping sores. The Canker may still have tts revenge,
as you are now dying from the plague! If you have a
Heal-all, in desperation you gulp down the contents of
the flask — and you feel a golden warmth spreading
through your whole being. The blessed panacea has
destroyed the plague within you. Reduce your INFEC-
TION score to zero and restore up to 6 points of
STAMINA, but ignore any other instructions given as
to the use of the Heal-all. Cross the Heal-all off your
Adventure Sheet and tum to 249. If you do not have a
Heal-all, the Canker enjoys the ultimate triumph . .. in
your own tortured death.

97

Trudging through the swamp makes you very fatigued
(lose 1 STAMINA point) You rest beside a stagnant
pool where grow an abundance of plants and fungi
that are useful to herbalists and physicians: Frostflower
with its snowflake-like blooms; Eyebright, a plant with
small black leaves and white flowers; Toadwort, a
plant with mottled brown-and-green leaves; and Scral-
lus, a notable property of which is that its spores can
induce a hypnotic trance. Having gathered as many of
the plants as you like, will you go:

Left? Turn to 174
Right? Turn to 59
Straight ahead? Tum to 198
98

98
You walk through many squares and down winding
streets until you finally reach the West Gate, which
stands open, leaving the road into the hills unob-
structed. Two of the town’s militia force, guarding the
gate, take no notice of you; you pose no threat.
Suddenly you become aware of the sound of gongs
and bells, accompanied by chanting and a deep rum-
bling sound. The closer you get to the gate, the louder
the noises become and the militiamen begin to look
anxiously at each other. People in the street hurry out
of the way as from round a comer comes one of the
strangest collections of people you've ever seen. A
group of men and women are walking along the road
towards you, hitting gongs, cymbals and bells, and
chanting in a monotone above the din. Most of the
people in the procession are wearing plain, grey robes,
although some are clad only in loincloths. All of them,
however, are in some way inflicting pain on them-
selves. A bald man at the front of the group has a
metal band round his head, which seems to be spiked
on the inside, and another similar artefact round his
neck. Another man stares skyward while beating him-
self with a cat-o’-nine-tails. One woman, almost in a
trance with the chanting, grips hot coals in her hands.
These are the Acolytes of Pain, religious fanatics who
believe that to get closer to their gods they must
endure great physical suffering. They are feared by all,
including the town militia, because of the atrocities
they commit in the name of religion. The rumbling
sound is caused by a huge, wooden, spoked wheel,
several metres in diameter, with a man stretched out
99

on the hub as if he were on a rack. The wheel, which
is covered with spikes on the outside edge, is rolled
along by several other fanatics; it has ropes attached
to it, which pull other disciples along the road in 2
bruised and bloodied state, Caught up in watching this
spectacle, too late you realize that you are directly ir
the path of the procession. The bald man sees you ané
calls a halt. Immediately the noise and the chanting
stop as the wheel creaks to a standstill. ‘Brothers anc
sisters!’ he shouts. ‘An unbeliever would profane the
sacred way to enlightenment. The unbeliever must b=
tested!’ The group of acolytes cheer at this announce-
ment and several run towards you. Will you wait te
see what happens next (turn to 51) or make a run for =
(turn to 275)?

99
Coxcomb the Clown moves on to the next custome:

and you retire to your room, The night passes withou:
incident and you wake up, fully refreshed (restore uz
to 2 STAMINA points). You leave the inn and are

immediately caught up in the early-morning throng c

people already making their way up the narrow stree:
to the Market Square. Turn to 131

100-101

100
It has gone midday when you enter the village of
Fenford. The sky remains cloudy and grey, and the
whole village seems very quiet. You may rest here to
eat Provisions if you wish. In the middle of the village
is an inn, the Brindled Cat; perhaps someone there can
help you in your search for the Black Grimoire. Will
you enter the Brindled Cat (turn to 34) or will you
pass straight through and leave the village (tum to
48)?

101

‘ou pull the belladonna from your pack and quickly
mew a sprig. The poison in the plant immediately
makes you sick (lose 2 sTAMINA points) but at least
vou are now cured of the terrible disease. You are
=nable to sleep properly for the rest of the night, so
with the dawn you are on your way again. Turn to 57.

zz
102

102
Speaking in a low murmur, you start to read the spel
that will prevent the release of the Kurakil As if =
response, Nazek looks up and shouts, ‘Brothers anz
sisters! We are attacked!’ Karad and the Resistance 3:
not hesitate, Pouring into the crypt, they engage *>:
coven in battle before spells can be cast. You start ::
read the spell once more. A stabbing pain sears throus=
your chest and you cry out and double up in agoz;
(lose 3 STAMINA points and i SKILL point). Standing z
few metres away, a young witch is holding a crude)
shaped wax doll, into which she is sticking a long ps
Before she can cripple you further, you run at her wit
your sword.

WITCH SKILL 6 STAMINA. =

If you kill the witch, will you try and use the del
against Nazek (turn to 245) or fight your way throuc
the mélée to reach the Warlock (turn to 319)?

103-106

103
Unfortunately, the thief somehow manages to steal all
your gold! (Crass off all your gold from your Adventure
Sheet.) You do not discover this until it is too late to
do anything about it. Turn to 313.

104
In the flickering light from your lantern you do not
see the narrow pit that cuts across the passageway
Test your Skill. If you are successful, at the last
moment you manage to fling yourself across to the
other side of the pit and carry on along the tunne!
(turn to 267) If you fail, you are unable to move
quickly enough to prevent yourself tumbling into
the hole (lose 1 sTAMINA point), Having climbed
out of the pit, you carry on along the tunnel (tum
to 267).

105
Enthus died centuries ago, How will you summon the
spirit of the dead priest? Will you use:

The candles and prayer? Turn to 360

The blood of a priest? Tum to 296

A Heal-all? Tum to 265
106

The old man chuckles to himself. ‘If yer want me ‘elp,’
he says, ‘frst you must answer me riddle.’ Do you
want to hear the riddle (turn to 1§1), or will you
ignore such foolish games and try to escape (turn to
30)?

10>-108

107
With your lantern lit, and making sure the rope is
secure at the top, you swing yourself over the parapet
and into the well, and you start to lower yourself hand
over hand, Your lantern illuminates only a small section
of the vertical shaft at a time. As you descend, you
can hear a sloshing sound beneath you as something
starts moving around in the water below. Although
blind, the Devilworm has picked up your scent. The
next thing you feel is the creature’s jaws round your
middle as it prepares to bite you in two. Your adven-
ture is Over.

108

An Astronomer's Almagest is a textbook that contains
information about predicting certain astronomical
events. You come across a reference to Shekka’s Moon
Most of what you find relates to the calculations
necessary for determining when Shekka’s Moon will
rise. However, you also discover that Shekka is ar
ancient goddess of witchcraft and that her moon rises
every 37 years, the event also being known as Witches
Moon. When this occurs, the goddess’s power is
strongest in the world. Tum to 68.

109-110

109
By strength of will alone, you overcome the mind-
clouding charm. With a loud, hollow boom, the chest
lid drops shut. You look up, to see that the Beast is
almost upon you, Turn to 250.

110
‘I said the red ball,’ Coxcomb laughs, opening his left
hand. ‘The blue one’s in this hand. But here, take it’
The clown throws you the blue wooden ball (add this
to your Adventure Sheet) and pulls the red one out
trom under his hat. Coxcomb dances away from your
table, followed by his band of admirers, leaving you to
retire to your room. The night passes without incident
and you wake up, fully refreshed (restore up to 2
STAMINA points). You leave the inn and are immedi-
ately caught up in the early-morning throng of people
already making their way up the narrow street to the
Market Square. Turn to 131.

\

I

| i I i a

It aie!

Po

fs

‘ih Hh in r

ti f I

J i i
44% 8 .

1It1iI~-{12

111

‘Only those who are worthy may enter the burial-
place of the Guardian of the Land,’ the High Priest
announces. “The means of testing is decreed.’ The
dmiids make you kneel before a small stone at the far
side of the circle; there are numbers carved into it.
Spreading his arms wide, the High Priest speaks again:
‘This is the Equinox Stone, with which are calculated
the holy cycles of the year. Like all such stones, it has
a mystic number of great power and importance, What
is the mystic number?’ Staring at the carvings on the
stone, you frantically try to reason out what the
mystic number is (take a look at the illustration on the
page facing this paragraph). When you think you
know the answer, turn to the paragraph with the same
number, If that paragraph does not make any sense,
you have chosen wrongly (turn to 305). If you cannot
solve the puzzle, you tel! the druid you do not know
what the number is (turn to 305)

112

On your return, you and Sam board the raft again,
which he guides round the island and across the lake,
to the western shore. Sam tells you the quickest and
safest route out of the marsh and, thanking him again
for his help, you wave goodbye to your new friend.

You emerge from Blackmire on the road to Selwick
Dusk is falling when you catch sight of the village in
the distance. You suddenly hear the pounding of hoofs
on the road behind you, and a horse appears out of
the darkness. The animal is a fine, black stallion;
113

mounted on its back is a well-dressed man wearing a
hooded cape. If you have the potion Clearsee, you
may drink it now, if you wish, by tuming to the
paragraph with the same number as the page on which
the recipe for Clearsee can be found in Sam's book.
you do not have it or if you do not want to drink it
turn to 66.

113

Rarer herbs on offer include Phoenix Grass, a red-and-
orange-coloured herb from Far Analand; Tagnn, to
ward off contagion and Sprite Weed, to enhance
magical performance. You may buy as many bunches
of herbs as you like, at 3 Gold Pieces a bunch.
provided you can afford them, When you are ready,
turn to 290 to buy some common herbs, or turn to 35
to purchase a tot of Healing Infusion. If you want
neither, turn to 389.

114

114

The road leads you towards the dark, brooding forest
but, before entering the forest, you cross the Grimiry
River once more. You are not much further along the
road when you hear a rustling coming from the trees
and a woman’s voice calls out: ‘Halt!’ Looking up, you
see a figure, swathed in dark robes, standing on 4
branch that juts out over the read. Drop your weapon
and throw me your gold’ she commands. ‘Oh, and
don’t try anything clever because you're surrounded.’
Looking around, you can see an assortment of rogues
and outlaws, dressed like the woman and armed with
bows and staves. Will you:

Do as the outlaw says but with the

intention of tricking her? Tum to 232
Stand your ground? Tur to 45
Make a run for it? Turn to 128

115-116

115
Pressing your face against the grille, you shout for the
guard for at Jeast five minutes, to no avail ‘It’s no
good,’ a young woman's voice comes from another
cel], ‘they won‘t hear you.’ Now what will you do?
Will you try to break the door down (turn to 47), wait
for a guard to bring you a meal (tum to 325) or accept
the beggar’s offer of help (tur to 344)

116

The Salamander potion works perfectly. You reach
into the fire, feeling nothing more than a warm glow.
and pull out the horseshoe, which has reddened in the
heat. The crowd lets out a gasp. ‘Trickery!’ the Inquisi-
tor yells. ‘This is witchcraft!’ The man advances to-
wards you, and the crowd backs away as he does so
Under the hood of the cloak you can see the man’s
eyes burning with insane fury. The Inquisitor opens
his mouth to speak again but, rather than his own
voice, a rasping growl issues from his throat: ‘So
You must be the one spoken of, The Spellbreaker.’ The
crowd does not seem to be aware of what is going on
If you know a Demonic Word of Command, you had
better say it now (tum to 327); if you do not, turn to
225.

117

117
First, Talpas marks out a circle on the sandy floor of
the chamber, then he pulls a handful of flat stones,
with esoteric symbols etched on them, out of a bag
and throws them into the circle. ‘Ah, yes,’ Talpas
mutters, studying the runes. ‘I see the Rune of Good
and that of a warrior; those refer to you. Here is the
Rune of Mystery, your destiny is uncertain, and here
is the Rune of Secrecy next to that representing a man,
possibly someone you have met before? | also see that
you must visit a place of death and a place of worship.’
Talpas suddenly freezes in terror. ‘No, it cannot be!” he
exclaims, staring at one rune that has fallen just outside
the circle. The symbo] on the rune is three crossed
lines, the Witch’s Mark. ‘Shekka’s Rune!’ Talpas shouts
in panic. ‘But there is no such rune in my possession! I
fear that dark magic is at work here.” The Molekin
hurriedly puts the nines back in their bag, but not
before throwing the Witch's Mark into the fire. He
ushers you out of the chamber and down the tunnel to
a smaller room in which is a rough straw mattress, and
here you spend the night peacefully. Turn to 15.

118-119

118

Before it is your turn, a grey-haired pilgrim recites his
tale, He relates the legend of Gwythain the Warrior-
Priest, servant of the Swordbearer, telling how the
Protector slew the Demon Akragog with his Blessed
Blade. Deliverer, and how he cut out the canker
growing in Aryn’s Hill, He recounts the legend with
such expertise that you will have to draw on all your
reserves to surpass him. Tes! your Skill, adding 2 to the
dice roll. If you succeed, turn to 457; if you fail, tum
to 284. .

119
Your blow strikes the worm with such force that you
slice it completely in half. The segmented coils writhe
around, trying to locate each other. As soon as the
two halves make contact, they join back together!
How are you ever going to kill a creature that has
such powers? If only you could separate the segments
long enough to stop them rejoining. Of course -
running water! IF you fought the Devilworm in running
water, the pieces would be washed away before they
could grow back together. The nearest source of run-
ning water is the fast-flowing mill-race of the derelict
mill — perfect! To lead the Devilworm to the water
you must keep fighting it as you go downhill towards
the mill-race. This will take six Attack Rounds and.
while you are fighting like this, you will not be able to
injure the creature, only defend yourself. You must
also reduce your Attack Strength by 1 paint for the
duration of the descent because you are walking back-
wards downhill! When you reach the mill-race. you

120

wade out into the middle of the stream where the
current is strongest. It will be hard keeping your
balance in the fast-flowing water. As a result, you
must reduce your Attack Strength by another point;
however, at least now you will be able to wound the
Devilworm

DEVILWORM

If at any time you rol! a double for your own Attack
Strength during the battle, turn to 172. If you defeat
the monster without rolling any doubles, turn to 52.

SKILL 10 STAMINA 10

120

Looking down at the piper’s crumpled body, you
notice his pipes lying next to him Blowing into the
pipes, they begin to play a tune all by themselves.
You also see that the man is wearing an amulet round
his neck in the shape of the Crescent Moon, If you
take the Charmed Pipes or the Crescent Moon Amulet,
make a note on your Adventure Sheet. Hearing a shout
coming from the direction of the South Gate, you look
up to see three of the town militia running towards
you. If they catch you, you will doubtless be tried for
murder — although you have saved the whole town

= ——™
L2t

from the plague! Do you want to face the militiamen
(turn to 269), or would you rather try and outrun
them (turn to 222)?

121

If the Grmalkin hit you three times or more, you must
also lose i SKILL point, due to the Imp‘s tainted touch
Beside the creature’s rapidly decaying body you
glimpse a strange symbol] written in the dirt on the
stable floor, Clearing the straw away, you find the
cause of the farm’s curse: drawn on the ground is a
hex-mark, a magical sigil which attracts ill to a place.
anything from bad luck to disease. You rub out the
hex-mark, lifting the curse from the farm (regain 1
LUCK point).

Back in the kitchen of the farmhouse, you tell Liam
and Isa of your find. ‘That’s the work of Mistress
Crowfoot all right,’ says Liam. ‘Her cottage is west of
Selwick, in Paddocks Wood. If you could capture her,
so she can be brought to trial, all of Selwick will

122-123

reward you’ Will you help the people of Selwick? If
you will, turn to 46; if you won't, turn to 61

122

White-robed initiates guide the pilgrims to the
Hallow's Well itself, where they collect the healing
waters in specially prepared gourds and pray to the
goddess for her blessing. Eventually it is your turn
The gourd costs you 2 Gold Pieces, as those who can
make an offering are expected to pay, to help those
who are less fortunate. The spring actually emerges
from a large boulder which stands in the middle of
the temple, the water collecting in a natural basin in
the rock. You uncork the flask and, holding it under the
small cascade, fill it. Roll one die and add 4 to the
result. If the total is Jess than or equal to your FAITH
score, turn to 49; if it is greater, turn to 352

123

Astradd’s Holy Lives is not one book but a series of
four large volumes, containing accounts of the lives of
many well-known — and some not so well-known —
priests and sages from Ruddlestone’s past Scanning
the contents pages, you see references to numerous
heads of religious orders and miracle-healers, but from
the list three names grab your attention. You look up
the relevant volumes and page numbers and decide
which of the following to read up on. Will it be:

Zillah of Shekin, the Heretic? Turn to g1
The warrior-priest, Gwythain the

Protector? Turn to 18
Enthus the Martyr? Turn to 184
124-126

124
Even while fighting the force of a hurricane you
manage to keep your grip on the stone. Looking up
into the sky, you see three wild hags, wearing tattered
black cloaks, circling on their broomsticks! Above the
gale you can hear them chanting:

Thrice around three sisters fly,
Rain and hail, and wind and snow.
Thrice around the stormy sky,
Causing bedlam wher'er they go,’

[t ts these witches who have created the hurricane in
order to stop you completing your quest. However, a
number is hidden in their chant and, if you can work it
out, then perhaps you will be able to break their spell.
lf you know what the number is, turn to the paragraph
with the same number. [f you do not know what the
number is, or if you get it wrong, turn to 390.

125
Your search at last brings you to a stone spiral
staircase that climbs up into the keep. At the top ts a
short corridor leading left and right, ending in a door
both ways. Will you go through the door to the left
(turn to 381) or the door to the right (tum to 215)?

126
Leaving the man behind you, you follow the street as
it opens into a small square, where all manner of
entertainers, from juggiers to fire-eaters, are putting on
a show for the crowds At one comer of the square
you notice that a rather drab-looking tent, patched in

127-130

many places, has been erected. Beside the tent, a fade2
painted sign informs you that the next puppet shox
will begin in just a few minutes. The entrance fee is -
Gold Piece. If you want to watch the performancz
turn to 4. If you would rather make your way towards
the South Gate, turn to 457.

127
The: guards leap out of the way of the speeding
hayeart as it only just scrapes through the gap betweer
the closing ates. When you are well alang the road
out of the town. you jump down from the cart
leaving the farmer swearing at his horse, Turn to 300

128

You hare off in the direction of the trees, knockins
one startled rogue over in your break for freedom. As
you dash into the undergrowth, arrows rain down or
you, Roll one die to determine how many arrows hit
you: for each hit, lose 2 stAMINA points. Test your
Luck. If you are Lucky, turn bo 207. If you are Linlucky
turn to 370,

129
The first barrel the guard chooses to look in is yours. He
calis to his friend and in the confines of the barrel there
is nothing you can do to defend yourself. You soor
find yourself heading for the nearest blockhouse. Tur
to 25,

130
What with the terrible wailing of the Lurcher anc

131-132

the crying of the frightened children, you sleep fitfully
and awaken at dawn feeling just as fatigued as the
previous night (lose 1 sTAMINA point). You decide
that there is no point in staying in Driteham, so you
follow the road west out of the village, into the
forest. Several hours pass without incident before you
reach a junction Will you continue westwards to
Mussuck (turn to 3), or head south-west for Fenford
(turn to 100)?

131

The Market Square is full of stalls, with traders selling
everything from needle and thread to a saddle and
harness. It is likely that you will find something useful
for sale here. Several ale-houses are also situated at the
edges of the square. The healing well is at the top of
the hill to the north, and streets lead out of the square
to the south and west. Do you want to:

Look round the stalls? Turn to 29
Make your way to the healing

well? Turn to 261
Visit one of the taverns? Turn to 332

Leave the Market Square by going

west? Turn to 98
Leave the Market Square by going
south? Tum to 272
432

The witch’s familiars assail you all together, while the
tailless rat runs out of the cottage. The rat was
Mistress Crowfoot; she had used her powers of

eee

1331354

transformation to try to hide from you — and succeeded
(lose 1 Luck point).

SKILL STAMINA
BLACK CAT 5 4
TOAD 2 2
GRIMALKIN 5 3
RAVEN 4 3
BAT 3 2

If the Grimalkin hits you more than twice, you must
lose 1 SKILL point. If you defeat all the familiars, tum

to 314.

133
Desperately you try to break the mesmerizing spell of
the music, but it is no good and you black out . ..

When you awaken, you find yourself by the edge of
the entertainers’ square, with no sign of the piper
Nothing has been stolen fram you, but a dull pain
draws your attention to your left hand, Turing up the
palm, you see that a strange rune of three crossed lines
has been branded on to it (lose 1 STAMINA point), In
horror, you recognize the symbol as that of the Witch's
Mark {deduct 2 points from both your Luck and
FAITH scores). Cursing the black-hearted piper, you
hurriedly leave the town; turn to 300.

134
At last you enter the burial chamber of Gwythain the
Protector, the warrior-priest Servant of the Sword-
bearer. Murals covering the walls show the hero in

135-1356

battle and at prayer. Lying on a plinth in the middle of
the room is a decayed skeleton, encased in tarnished
silver armour and wearing a fabulous silver helmet.
But where is the Protector’s sword? Someone has got
here before you. Cursing your misfortune, you now
have to decide what to do next. The corpse is holding
a shield with a rampant golden lion motif emblazoned
on it and a carved inscription runs round the plinth.
Will you:

Take the shield? Turn to 147
Read the inscription? Turn to 165
Take the silver helmet? Turn to 87
Leave the burial charnber? Tum to 343

135

The night is cold and the ground hard. You awaken
the next moming only slightly recovered from the
previous day's events (regain 1 STAMINA point), You
now have only until nightfall to find Nazek and the
Black Grimoire. Carrying on along the westerly road
across the moors, you reach a function with a road
heading south-east. A signpost informs you that this is
the road to Selwick, but you decide to ignore it,
instead heading west for Tallow. Turn to 280.

136
You try to throw yourself out of the path of the
speeding wheel, but unfortunately it is almost as wide
as the alley itself. The spikes on the wheel's rim catch
your leg and you are pulled under the drum. Your
adventure ends here.

437

137
As you pray, you sense the presence of another in the
room. Opening your eyes, you see that a shimmering
haze has appeared in the air over the sarcophagus. As
you watch, a ghostly figure, looking just like the
effigy, materializes in the chamber. It is the Spirit of
Enthus, ‘Heroic adventurer, the spirit intones in a
sonorous voice, ‘Evil is on the rise and the forces of
Order are threatened, In one day’s time the Infermal
Beast is to be unleashed upon the world again. Hun-
dreds of years have passed since I trapped the Kurakil
in the Casket of Shadows. I did not possess the power
to destroy the Beast and could only send it into limbo,
through the Demafrauge. Once the gateway is re-
opened, the Demon will escape and hundreds will die
You are now the only hope for the kingdom,’

The candles suddenly gutter, although there is no
breeze in the chamber, and black smoke starts to fill
the sepulchre. The dark cloud hovers over the open
sarcophagus then pours into it. As you watch, Enthus’s
bones join together and the skeleton jumps out of the
coffin. The skeleton is surrounded by a shadowy body
sprouting two small homs, with glowing coals of pure
malevolence in the eye-sockets of the skull. ‘An evil
spirit has invaded this place!’ cries Enthus’s Spirit. ‘Tt
must be very powerful to be able to enter consecrated
ground. Destroy it, quickly!’ The Revenant steps to-
wards you, claws raised,

REVENANT SKILL 9 STAMINA 8

If you win, turn to 24.
138-141

138
In the presence of disease, the Beggar’s Curse takes
effect; add 2 to your INFECTION score. Also, from now
on, every time you get an addition to your INFECTION
score, you must increase that addition by 1 point. Lose
1 LUCK point through your misfortune. If you have a
Rat Bite, turn to go. If you haven't, tum to 279.

139
The lantern illuminates only a small section of the
well-shaft at a time, as you lower it carefully into the
inky blackness. Eventually the lantern reaches the level
of the water in the well, but you can make out nothing
unusual: either the monster is not here or it is lurking
under the water. Hauling the lantern back up, will you
now climb down into the well (turn to 107) or will
you drop a stone down first, to see if you can disturb
the Devilworm (turn to 176)?

140
You open the reliquary and are pleased to find it
contains the bones as the man said. Return to 8o.

141
The Blessed Blade glows with a blue light as you
defend yourself against the hellish Wraith Rider and

his undead steed.

WRAITH RIDER

If you defeat the spectral fiend, both the horse and it
dissolve into thin air, leaving you to finish your
journey to Selwick. Turn to 19.

SKILL 10 STAMINA 9

142-143

142
Those wretched humans who are cursed with the
disease of lycanthropy can change their shape during
the hours of darkness to go hunting, and you have
been bitten by one. As a result, you will have been
infected with the disease. The only known cure is the
belladonna plant. If you have some belladonna, turn to
101; if you do not, turn to 155

143
The warlock appears to purchase something from the

short man then, remounting his pitchfork, he flies off
again into the night. Do you want to approach the
man under the pretence of buying something (turn to
262), or will you attack him and the Lurcher (turn to
163)?

144
As you sleep, you dream. You are on the road te

Hallow’s Well again. In front of you stands the pilgrim
from the inn-sign. ‘Do not worry,’ he says. ‘I know o:
your quest and am here to offer you help. The was
ahead is a dark road and there are many who woud
see you fail.’ He hands you his staff. “Take this, it max
help protect you from danger.’ The image fades, ane
the rest of the night passes peacefully. In the morning
you wake up, refreshed (restore up to 2 STAMIN#
points), but are surprised to find a staff lying on the
end of your bed. Remembering your dream, you pics
up the staff and immediately sense the aura of Gooc-
ness surrounding it. In your hands is the Pilgrim’s Sta=
(make a note of this on your Adventure Sheet and add =
to your FAITH score). As you leave the inn, you lovs
up at the sign and see the pilgrim with his scrip, o=
the road to Hallow's Well — but he no longer carries =
staff! Turn to 131

145

145 3
For hours you follow the road going west without

incident. The hills to the south gradually peter out and
you pass the forest which lies across the Grimiry River
to the north, The road slowly tums north and is joined
by another from the south-east To the east lies the
mist-shrouded area of marshland known to the locals
as Blackmire, a dangerous place, inhabited by many
terrible creatures. To the west you see the hills that
are your goal but above them loom threatening storm-
clouds. You pass a signpost pointing north; it has the
name ‘Selwick’ painted on it. Dusk is falling when you
catch sight of the village in the distance. You suddenly
hear the pounding of hoofs on the road behind you,
and a horse appears out of the darkness. The animal is
a fine, black stallion and mounted on its back is a well-
dressed man, wearing a hooded cape.

‘Greetings, traveller, says the man, I am making
for Selwick; may | offer to take you there on my
horse? You do not want to be out on the road after
dusk in these parts, I can assure you.’ Do you wish to
accept the rider’s offer (tum to 233), or will you
politely decline (turn to 385)?

146-147

146

It will take too long to make the journey back to
Hallow’s Well and follow the other road going west,
so you decide to cut across country and rejoin the
road once you are well past Aryll. Once off the road,
however, you are at the mercy of the creatures roaming
the wilderness that surrounds the small human settle-
ments. It is not long before your scent is picked up by
a pack of wolves, and moments later they are upon
you, You must fight all these beasts at the same time.

SKILL STAMINA
First WOLF 7 6
Second WOLF 6 7
Third WOLF 8 :

If you survive the attack, you continue across the
moors until you can rejoin the road, several kilometres
west of Aryll; turn to 367

147
The shield feels light on your arm and you are fillec

with courage (add 1 to your current and Initial sKiLt
score and 1 to your FAITH for this new acquisition
Now will you read the inscription (turn to 165), take
the silver helmet (turn to 87) or leave the chambe-:
(turn to 343)?

148-149

148

You pay the falconer and he tells you that to send the
falcon in pursuit of something you need only say, ‘One,
two, away.’ In this way you can get the bird to help
you fight against an opponent. The falcon has the
attributes SKILL 7 STAMINA 5. The falcon has only one
attack in a battle, but you can decide which opponent it
will be against. The bird will fight only if you are doing
so too. With a fine hawk perched on your shoulder you
proudly move on to the next stall Turn to 365

149
Swathing yourself in one of the outlaws’ dark robes

you set off, following the woman's directions. The
overgrown pathways twist and turn, taking you deeper
nto the dense woodland. Suddenly you hear an owl
aooting in the trees near by — but it is still the middle
of the day! Will you carry on along the path (turn to
178) or try to imitate the call before proceeding (turn
70 281)?

150

150
Crouching behind a pillared cloister and filled with
trepidation, you gaze into the vast chamber beyond.
The crypt is crammed with the assembled Cauldron of
Midnight. Wherever you look, you can see witches
and warlocks and even other, more inhuman creatures
such as beast-headed Demons and horned Devils.
Running around at the feet of the throng or flapping
through the air above them are the coven’s familiars:
cats, rats, Imps, birds, flying mammals, reptiles and
slimy amphibians. Standing on a plinth at the far end
of the hall is Nazek the Warlock, now dressed in a
plain black cowl, with the Black Grimoire open in front
of him on a lectern, the dark wood of which is carved
to resemble writhing centipedes. In front of Nazek is a
huge black chest adorned with reliefs of some of the
foul creatures of the Pit — the Demafrauge! On either
side of the chest stand two brass incense-burners, their
smoky vapours filling the chamber with a noxious
stench. In the roof of the vaulted crypt is a gaping
hole, through which you can see the sinister red
crescent of Shekka’s Moon amid the boiling storm-
clouds. The coven are repeating their esoteric chant
over and over while Nazek reads the spell that will
open the Casket of Shadows. The Ritual of Unlocking
has already begun! What will you do? If you have the
Spell of Locking, you may try to read it now, in order
to counteract Nazek’s magic (turn to 102); alternatively,
you can lead the Resistance into battle against the
Cauldron of Midnight, using your sword to stop the
Warlock (turn to 319)
151-152

151
‘Right,’ says Cynric. ‘If yer get me riddle, I'll ‘elp yer
get out.’ He looks at the skeleton. ‘Mind, Gerald, you
keep quiet. | don’t want no cheatin’. Now, ‘ere’s me

riddle

I am the jailer’s strong right arm,
I set the prisoner free.

I keep fast the treasure hoard,
But ail doors will open to me.’

If you know the answer to Cynric’s riddle, take each letter
of the answer and add together the numbers correspond-
ing to those letters’ places in the alphabet, Then turn to
the paragraph with the same number as the total of the
letters, If you cannot solve the begegar’s riddle, you will
have to find another means of escape (turn to 30).

152
The Fen Beast’s lair contains nothing more than the
remains of previous meals, so you decide to press on
through the marsh. Just as you are leaving the clearing
you see a clump of mistletoe growing in the branches
of a gnarled tree, If you wish to, you may cut some to
take with you, but make a note of what you cut it
with. You wander on through the swamp and, unable
to see the hills because of the murky haze, soon realize
you have lost all sense of direction. The twisting path
soon splits three ways. Will you go:

Left? Tum to 396
Right? Tum to 339
Straight on? Turn to 237

153-155

153
lt was wise to stop, There is a sharp twang and a
crossbow bolt flies past you into a tree on the other
side of the road. Your group is swiftly surrounded
by men swathed in dark robes. One of them runs
from the trees beside you with his short sword
drawn,

BRIGAND SKILL 7 STAMINA 7

If you win, turn to 298.

154
Before you can hide behind the cart, the man spots
you, At such close range your disguise is useless. ‘I
don’t know you,’ he says, ‘and what are you doing in
Gex's clothes?’ The Rogue Captain raises his iron-shod
mace, ready for combat. He is one of the Mask’s most
trusted men and a skilled fighter.

ROGUE CAPTAIN SKILL 9 STAMINA 10

lf your opponent wins two consecutive Attack Rounds,
you are knocked off your feet by the second blow
from his mace. It takes you one Attack Round to get
up again, and meanwhile the Rogue Captain gets in an
unopposed strike (lose 2 STAMINA points). If you
defeat the Rogue Captain but the battle lasted more
than seven Attack Rounds, turn to 3120. If the battle
lasts seven Attack Rounds or fewer and you defeat
your opponent, turn to 7a.

155
Within an hour you become feverish, then your body
156-158

starts to change. Hair begins to sprout ail over your
upper body, head and arms, and your face becomes
lupine in appearance. Your thoughts are no longer
those of a human but of a blood-crazed animal. Your
adventure is over.

156
You pour the powder over the toad The rat bite:
your ankle and the raven claws your face with its
talons (lose 3 STAMINA points). Turn to 132.

157
Have you spoken to the man from Aryll? If you have
turn to 22; if you have not, turn to 187,

158

Searching the bodies of the woman and her compaz-
ions, you find a total of 7 Gold Pieces and enoug=
Provisions for 3 meals, Setting off along the roaz
again, you eventually reach a junction with a roa
running east-west through the forest. You turn wes-
and after two hours reach the village of Fenford, Tux
to 100,

159

159
The monastery at Claybury has been a ruin for many
years. Entering its crumbling gatehouse, you see that
the walls have been defiled with evil runes and graffiti.
This sanctuary of Good has been desecrated to serve
the purposes of Evil! An unnatural stillness pervades
the ruins even while black stormclouds are writhing
overhead, Hanging in the night sky over the monas-
tery is the blood-red crescent of Shekka’s Moon. There
is no sign of the coven, but they must be here
because the monastery is the resting place of the
Demafrauge — at least you hope it is. You hear an owl
hoot and look around to see Karad and the other Re-
sistance members hidden behind some broken columns

‘They are here for sure, Karad whispers, pointing
down a flight of worn stone steps to the heavy double
doors of the crypt. ‘We can hear them, somewhere
beyond those doors.’ You and Karad descend the steps
and push open the doors. The small room beyond is lit
by torches; in the distance, from another part of the
crypt, you can hear chanting. Suddenly two ghostly
bats fly down from the vaulted ceiling, their bodies
and wings covered in dancing wisps of flame, Shriek-
ing, the Demon Bats attack you both; you must fight
one each.

DEMON BAT SKILL 7 STAMINA 8

If the bat hits you successfully twice in a row, it grasps
you in its claws, its next successful strike causing 5
extra points of damage to your sTAMINA as it delivers
a massive blast of fire from its body. If you kill the
160-162

Demon Bat, Test your Luck, If you are Lucky, turn to
308; if you are Unlucky, turn to 394

160

You discover that bunches of common herbs cost 1
Gold Piece each, whereas bunches of rarer herbs cost 3
Gold Pieces each. The apothecaries also offer their
own Healing Infusion for only z Gold Pieces; this,
they claim, cures all maladies and agues. ‘We also do
teeth-pulling and minor amputations,’ Hemlock adds
cheerfully. lf you are interested in the common herbs,
turn to 290. To purchase some rarer herbs, turn to
113. If you want to buy a tot of Healing Infusion, tur
to 35, If nothing here encourages you to part with
your money, turn to 389

161
Using the barrels as an aid, you scramble up the wall
and grasp the parapet just as the militiamen arrive on
the scene, One of them levels a crossbow at you and
fires. Test your Luck. tf you are Lucky, turn to 287; if
you are Unlucky, turn to 82

162
As you enter the village of Aryil you notice that
many of the buildings have large red crosses painted
on their doors, a sure sign of plague in the household
Near by, two men are unloading bodies from a cart
and throwing them on one of the bonfires. The smell
of the burning turns your stomach but, determined to
help these people, you call out to the men and explain
to them what your intentions are. With smiles of relief

OK.

162

they take you to see the village elders, who are in a
large stone building in the middle of Aryll.

While you are in Aryll, you could catch the plague
yourself. Normally several days pass before the disease
ends in the victim’s death, but increased exposure to it
will increase the rate of infection in your body, You
must keep a close check on the plague’s progress; this
is reflected by your INFECTION score (start a record of
this on your Adventure Sheet). At present, your INFEC-
TION score is 1. IF your INFECTION score ever totals
15 Or more, immediately make a note of the paragraph
you are on and turn to 13, unless you are engaged in
combat. For now, if you have any Aramance or Tagrin,
turn to 224. Otherwise, turn to 321.

163~165

163
With a cry, you charge at the monster. In turn, it lets
out a spine-chilling scream and lurches towards you,
its strong fists its only weapons

LURCHER SKILL 9 STAMINA 9

If the Lurcher wins two Attack Rounds in a row, it
grasps you round the neck and throttles you; roll one
die and lose that many sTAMINA points! If you do not
free yourself by winning the next Attack Round, then
you suffer the same extra damage. If you win, tum to
302

164
Several customers are peering through grilles in the
wall to watch the fight ~ and some are even betting
on the outcome, With the door shut behind you and
no way out, you prepare to defend yourself against
the bear If you want to use your sword, tum to 75, If
you want to use something else, turn to 328

165
By the feeble light of your lantern you are just able to
make out the words carved into the plinth. The in-
scription reads: Here rests the mortal body of Gwythain
the Protector, My weapons of truth shall serve the noble-
hearted ~ but leave my armour intact to defend against
the forces of Eternal Night. What will you do next?
Will you take the shield (turn to 147), take the silver
helmet (turn to 87) or leave the chamber (turn to

343)?
166-167

166

After waiting for an hour, Lady Attana of Ide and her
entourage finally emerge from the abbey's guest-hall
Lady Attana herself is a middle-aged woman who has
grown plump on years of fine living. She is dressed in
clothes of the latest cut, and another sign of her
wealth is the numerous, ornate rings she wears on her
plump fingers. Lady Attana and her party of ladies-in-
waiting and bodyguards are all mounted on fine steeds;
her servants follow with her possessions on mules.
There is also a horse saddled and ready for you to
tide. You mount and are soon on the road again
leaving Rassin Abbey behind you. The moming passes
quickly as Lady Attana is talkative, to say the least, As
your journey progresses you discover that she has
been a widow for six years. She decided to make the
pilgrimage from her manor at Ide to see whether the
healing waters of Hallow’s Well could relieve the
discomfort she suffers in aching joints

Soon the road is joined by another from the south and
enters an area of woodland. You pass other travellers
heading in the same direction as your group but soon
lose sight of them again as you continue westwards
You become aware of a rustling sound in the trees
to your left. Do you want to stop (turn to 153) or
keep riding, pretending not to have noticed (turn te

194)?

167
The Grimalkin lands on your shoulder and bites
through your clothes as deep as the bone (lose =

168

STAMINA points). The creature then drops to the floor
and slips under the kitchen door before anyone can
stop it, You open the door and run out into the yard,
iust in time to see the imp wriggle under the stable
door. You fling open that door and see the creature
sink its teeth into the rump of the horse standing
there, In pain, the animal kicks out with its hind legs.
Test your Luck. If you are Lucky, turn to 291 IF you are
Unlucky, tum to 399.

168

the man manages to eat a single portion of your
Provisions (cross this off your Adventure Sheef), ‘Thank
you, my friend,’ he croaks, ‘but in helping me you
2ave put yourself at great risk.’ You assume the man
nas come to Hallow’s Wel] to be cured of the plague,
He confirms this and adds, ‘It took me two days to
zeach here because of my condition, but I fear it may
ready be too late. Others from my village set out as
well but could not get even this far.’ You press the
man for more information and he explains that five
days ago a shadowy stranger arrived at the village of
Aryll, However, the villagers were more concerned at
what the stranger brought with him — rats! Hundreds
at the creatures swarmed into the village, invading
cellars and sewers, and with them they brought the
ziague! Some of those infected set off for Hallow's
“ell, but this man is probably the sole survivor.
Leave me now, stranger, says the man, ‘but, if you
zan, save Aryll.’ With these words, the man staggers
=0 his feet and, ever so slowly, continues on his way.
fun to 126.

169-173

169
You cannot withstand the power of Shekka herse=
Although your faith is strong, it is not strong enous:
to resist the corrupting evil of the goddess. Your wo
is broken and your mind no longer remains your ov.
You will lead Nazek’s army in his conquest of =n:
northern lands.

170
In the flickering lantern-light you spot the narrow >>
that cuts across the-passageway just in time to avo
the trap. Turn to 267

171
At the temple you have the choice of taking <>
waters of the well (turn to 122), or making an offer
at the shrine to Enthus the Martyr, who awoke “4
healing springs here (tum to 14)

172
As you fight on, you momentarily lose your foor
on the rocks below the water and are swept off . 25
feet by the current. The monster seizes its opportu
and is on you in an instant. There is nothing you <a;
do as the Devilworm makes you its next meal

173
A loud clanging noise starts up; looking in the direstyar
of the West Gate, you see one of the guards 7st
ringing a bell to call for reinforcements to pursue 9a
and the acolytes, while his companion is beginnias ™
pull the gates shut, Coming down the hill towaras Sr

174-175

gate is a haycart being drawn by a sturdy cart-horse
The dozy-looking farmer driving it does not seem to
have noticed the commotion you are embroiled in.
You could take over the cart and charge the gate (turn
to 77} or simply flee (turn to 355)

174
The ground is getting very wet underfoot. Test your
Luck. If you are Lucky, you soon reach a drier stretch
of path (tum to 237). If you are Unlucky, you suddenly
find yourself in sludge up to your waist. Test your Luck
again. If you are Lucky this time, you manage to pull
yourself out of the muck (turn to 237). If you are
Unlucky, then the clinging mud sucks you down into
iis bog and you drown, the stinking slime filling your
ungs.

175
Decide how many Gold Pieces you will place on the
altar as an offering then roll one die. If the number
rolled is less than, or equal to, the number of Gold
Pieces offered, turn to 347. If the number rolled is
greater, turn to 226,

eS
1976-197

176

The stone drops down the well-shaft and hits the
water with a plop. At once you hear a terrible roar rise
up from inside the well, accompanied by the sound of
something large thrashing about in the water. You
have disturbed the Devilworm, and now it is angry.
You throw yourself away from the well just in time as
the monster emerges from it. The creature has a leech-
like head but with an oval mouth lined with sharp
teeth. From the head down, the monster's grey, seg-
mented body, which descends into the well-shaft and
is almost as wide, resembles that of a huge tapeworm,
with fleshy feelers running down its length on both
sides. Although eyeless, the Devilworm has a greatly
heightened sense of smell. Picking up your scent, it
moves towards you, its glistening, segmented body
undulating as it does so. The creature is a voracious
camivore and you will have to move fast to avoid
Deing its next meal. What will you do?

Throw a gourd marked with a letter

G at it (if you have one)? Turn to 330
Throw a gourd marked with a letter
S at it (if you have one)? Tum to 243
Attack it with your sword? Turn to 364
177

Drawing on great reserves of strength from within,
you manage to keep ahead of the wheel. Eventually
the alley widens out into a small courtyard and you
ding yourself out of the path of the drum, into a pile
ot bricks (lose 1 STAMINA point). The wheel smashes
178-179

into the side of a building, demolishing part of a wal.
Turn to 42.

178
You cannot have gone more than a few paces when 2
crossbow bolt thuds into your chest, piercing your
heart,

179

The landlord gives you the key to your room anc
following his directions, you make your way upstairs
The room is sparsely furnished, but a roaring fire has
already been lit in the grate and on a table in front o:
it a roast chicken stands ready for consumption, a!
courtesy of Lady Attana, When you have eaten your
fill, you settle down for the night. The inn-sign below
your window swings gently in the breeze, its fain:
creaking lulling you to sleep. Roll one die. If the resu:
is less than, or equal to, your FAITH score, tum to 144
Otherwise, turn to 393.

180

180

Remembering the pilgrim’s story about Gwythain the
Protector, you ask the elders if they can explain the
reference in the legend to the warrior-priest cutting out
che canker that grew in Aryn’s Hill. Malva tells you
chat the name ‘Aryll’ is a corruption of Aryn’s Hill. ‘In
the rumoured past of this village,’ says Manoc, the
shird elder, ‘there is a story about a servant of the Dark
sod Disease who unleashed plagues of rats and flies
en the world. He was killed by the Protector and was
curled in a crypt, said to be under the hill on which
Aryll stands. A stone marks the spot’ Could this evil
>e stirring again atter all these centuries? Do you want
‘oO investigate further (turn to 251) or will you leave
che village and waste no more time here (turn to 60)?

181-182

181

As you draw your sword, Mistress Crowfoot makes 2
peculiar gesture with her hands and mutters something
under her breath. The world round you grows rapidly
larger and four more hairy, black legs burst from your
body. The toad, now as big as a house, hops towards
you. In order to escape it, you scuttle through z
knothole and under the floorboards of the cottage
where you begin your new life as a spider.

182
Shaking, you uncork the flask and gulp down =:
contents. Slowly you feel the healing water take effec
You may restore 5 points of stAMINA but must ignosz
any other instructions given as to the use of the Hea-
all, Having taken a little time to recover, you leave i
town of Hallow’s Well by the West Gate. Turn to 300

183-184

183
Before he has a chance to cast a spell, you run at the
warlock, sword drawn. Wailing horribly, the Lurcher
also joins in the fray, fighting with its strong fists
while the warlock defends himself with his pitchfork.
You must fight them both at the same time.

SKILL STAMINA
WARLOCK 7 7
LURCHER 9 9

If the Lurcher scores two consecutive hits against you,
it grasps you round the neck and throttles you; roll
one die and lose that many sTAMINA points. If you do
not free yourself by winning the next Attack Round,
you suffer the same extra damage. If you win, hum to
302.

184
Several centuries ago, during a time of impiety, the
land was plagued by all manner of foul demons and
malicious devils. Enthus was a young priest who

185-187

travelled the kingdom searching out the creatures of
darkness and banishing them. However, all the evils
manifested themselves as the shadowy Infernal Beast
which began slaughtering hundreds of innocent people
Enthus did not possess the power to defeat the Beast
utterly but instead managed to imprison it in the
Casket of Shadows. However, he died as a result of
the wounds he sustained in his battle with the Demon
and has been celebrated as a martyr ever since. It was
also Enthus who released the spring at Hailow’s Well
which flows from the.ground at the spot where the
priest exorcized a devil from a young boy. Turn to 68

185
You throw the powder at the raven. It flies at you
from its perch and, clawing at your face, manages to
scratch your eye (lose 2 STAMINA points and 1 SKILL
point). Tum to 132

186
The diseased mass of flesh lurches towards you, trying
to grasp you with its writhing tentacles

CANKER SKILL 8 STAMINA 12

If you defeat the foul, undead horror in fewer than
nine Attack Rounds, add 4 to your INFECTION score
and turn to 6 If you do not, turn to 33

187
Following the road out of the entertainers’ square, you
soon reach the South Gate and leave the town, Tum
to 300,

188

188
As you approach the farmers’ table, you overhear one
of them say, ‘I says we all go into the marsh now and
unt it down!’

3ut that place is dangerous,’ his friend points out

May I be of any assistance?’ you ask, and you explain
zo the farmers your status as a hired sword

Vell, it’s the Fen Beast, see,’ the first man tells you. ‘It
eves in the marshes known as Blackmire, but it’s
started killin’ our animals for food. If we don’t kil] it
soon, we'll all be ruined’ Do you want to offer to kill
the Fen Beast for them? If so, the farmers take you to
“he edge of Blackmire and, with the men wishing you
well, you enter the marshes (turn to 333). Otherwise,
will you:

Talk to the friar? Turn to 213
Talk to the man in black? Turn to 348
Talk to the landlady? Turn to 81
Leave the Brindled Cat and Fenford? Tum to 48

189

189
As you approach the door, it is suddenly thrown open
by a short, squat figure and a cracked voice calls out,
‘Come in, come in. I’ve been expecting you.’ Puzzled
by this invitation, you pause at the doorway and
watch the figure as it shuffles down a tunnel dug into
the side of the hill. ‘It’s all right,’ says the creature, 1
saw your coming in the runes.’ You sense that the
creature means you no harm, so you follow it into its
home, albeit still somewhat confused. You have to
bend almost double to make your way down the
rough-hewn tunnel, but soon you come to a chamber
where you can just stand upright. The cluttered room
appears to be the creature’s main living area and
contains a rocking chair, a table on which the corpse
of a snake is being dissected, and shelves crammed
with all kinds of pots and jars, all scaled down to an
appropriate size for the inhabitant of this unusual
dwelling. The light in the chamber comes from several
fireflies, trapped in a glass jar, and a fire in an alcove
over which hangs a cooking pot. Your host seats
himself in the rocking chair beside the fire and stirs the
contents of the pot, The creature is dressed in several
layers of ragged robes, under which it seems to be
covered in short, dark fur. Its hands are shovel-like
claws while its face, half-hidden under a hood, is an
animal snout, The creature’s beady eyes peer at you
through a pair of half-moon glasses, The more you
look at your host, the more he resembles a humanoid
mole. ‘Would you like some soup?’ the creature asks.
You accept the offer and tuck into a bowl of green
_ broth (restore 2 sTAMINA points). The creature

eee

190-191

introduces himself as Talpas the Burrower, one of the
Molekin, a race of underground dwellers. He tells you
that he saw your coming by casting runes, a means of
divination. Feeling that you can trust Talpas, you tell
him of your quest. ‘Perhaps you would like me to cast
your munes, yes, to see what dangers await you? [ must
wam you that their messages can, at times, be mislead-
ing. If you want to accept his offer, turn to 117; if not,
you retire for the night (tum to 15).

190

As the last familiar falls, you see Mistress Crowfoot
whisper something to her raven and it flies towards an
open window. If you have a falcon and want to send it
after the raven, repeat the command the falconer told
you. If you don’t have a falcon, or if you don’t want
to send it after the raven, furn to 590.

1g1

Fortunately, no one in the party is badly hurt, the worst
injuries being a knock on the head and a large sword-
gash among the bodyguards. Lady Attana cannot thank
you enough: ‘We are all indebted to you for saving our
lives. You were so brave and dealt with those robbers as
they deserved. Sadly, they managed to get away with
my jewellery box. They shouldn’t be able to open it, as it
was carved from wood from the magically protected
forest of Lein, but it was given to me by my late husband
on our wedding day. If you should ever, by chance,
recover it, its contents are yours. It is the least I can give
you for saving my life, but if you could retum the box |
would be most grateful.’ Lady Attana takes from round

191

her neck a chain on which hangs a silver key. She hands
both the key and the chain to you and you see that the
number ‘252’ is engraved on the key; Lady Attana tells
you that this was the year of her wedding. You thank her
and, when all is ready, continue your journey

By Jate afternoon the road is descending out of the
wood towards the River Sanct. On the other side, the
shrine town of Hallow’s Well is clearly visible, a
mixture of timber and stone houses competing for
space within the confines of the old town wall. Your
party crosses the wide stone bridge that spans the
Sanct and enters the town by the eastern Pilgrim’s
Gate. The narrow street leads into the Market Square,
which is packed with people. Lady Attana tells you
that she is heading for the Pilgrim’s Rest, where she
and her entourage are to stay for the night; you are
welcome to go with them if you so desire. If you want
‘o do this, turn to 85. [f you prefer now to press on
again by yourself, turn to 341

192-193

192
The acolytes take you to the top of a steep, narrow
alley and the wheel is brought round behind you.
They release you and you begin to run as fast as you
can; you can hear the wheel picking up speed as it
rolls down the hill after you. Do you want to try to
leap out of the way of the wheel (turn to 136), or will
you keep running (turn to 65)?

193
With the Demon banished, the spell the Inquisitor hac
the villagers under is broken, They make no move te
stop you as you bend over the unconscious man anc
pull out a pendant from under his robes. The pendan:
is made of a ring of black metal etched with runes anc
demonic sigils - a Chaos Talisman! You throw the
talisman into the brazier, then help some of the vi-
lagers free the girl at the stake, She gives you a look of
great relief and her grandmother hurries over to you
thanking you over and over again for saving he
grand-daughter. The people of Tallow, realizing now
that they had been fooled by the Inquisitor, beg you
forgiveness for their harsh actions and offer you the
freedom of their village. However, you must be oz
your way, for tonight Shekka’s Moon will rise and the
Infernal Beast is to be freed, Before you go, the g=
you rescued recovers sufficiently to offer her skills as z
healer to you (restore up to 5 STAMINA points). Wiss
your wounds tended and your belongings returned, you
set off into the hills for the remote village of Claybury. £
you have the word ‘Raven’ noted down on you
Adventure Sheet, turn to 28. If you haven’t, tum to 2a7

194-195

194
You hear a sharp twang and cry out in pain as a
crossbow bolt embeds itself in your arm (lose 2
STAMINA points). In a moment the whole party is
surrounded by men swathed in dark robes. You spin
around, to see one of the brigands running at you
with his short sword drawn.

BRIGAND SKILL 7 STAMINA 7

If you defeat your attacker, tum to 298.

195
Soon the tunnel broadens out into a small chamber; on
the opposite side of the room is a pair of large, stone
doors. Above the doors a skull has been carved out of
the rock, undemeath which you read the legend: All
Good souls, do not ye enter here. Lying on the floor on

196

either side of the doors are two decaying human
corpses, You could turn back now, but you must put
an end to the evil in this place. As you approach the
stone doors the eyes of the nearest body flick open.
Horrified, you watch as the two Plague Zombies get
to their feet and shamble towards you. Roll one die
and add 4. If the result is less than, or equal to, your
FAITH, turn to 221. If it is greater, turn to 73,

196

Seeing the Pilgrim’s Sfaff in your possession, the High
Priest cries out, ‘Oh, praise be to the Earth-mother!
Can I be seeing the truth?’ Wresting the staff from
you, the druid and his followers carry it to a sacred
grove of trees not far from the barrow while you
watch the proceedings from the edge of the grove
The High Priest plunges one end of the staff into the
earth at the centre of the ring of trees, then he heaps
soil round the base; next, he offers up a prayer to his
goddess, Small green shoots immediately begin to
sprout all over the staff. In seconds the shoots have
grown into stems, then into branches. Soon the staff
has become a thriving bush, with radiant white blooms
opening all over it, "Your servant, Caerod, thanks you,
oh Earth-mother.’ The druid picks one of the flowers
and hands it to you, explaining, “Your staff was made
from the wood of the Ilithorn, a very rare and sacred
plant, Now that we initiates of the Goddess have such
a plant, we shall tend it with al! due reverence’ (Add
the Ilithorn Rose to your Adventure Sheet.) Leaving the
grove, you make your way to the barrow. Turn to
271

197-199

197
Without realizing it, the man really has sold you part
of the shroud of the priestess Aline the Innocent, and
already you can feel its power working (add 2 points
to your FAITH score). Now return to Bo.

198
Vile-smelling marsh gas bursts from the fetid swamp
that surrounds you. At a junction in the path will you
20:

Left? Turn to 301
Right? Turn to 174
Straight on? Turn to 396

199

By pure strength of will you break the mesmerizing
power of the music. You approach the piper but the
man jumps to his feet and the rat leaps from his
shoulder, straight at you. Test your Lick. if you are
sucky, the rat sinks its teeth harmlessly into your
eather armour; tum to 377. If you are Unlucky, tum
70 257.

200

200
The door opens and you are pulled inside, The room
is dark and musty; Karad stands in the middle and all
round him, sitting on chairs and tables or leaning
against the walls, are some fifty men and women,
armed ready for battle and all doughty-looking war-
riors. Karad once more apologizes for his caution then
introduces you to the‘band of Resistance fighters. You
briefly exchange details of your adventures since your
meeting in Fenford. “The Resistance has been busy
too,’ Karad explains, ‘and has discovered two important
facts, First, the Cauldron of Midnight is holding its
Sabbat meeting tonight. somewhere in Claybury,
where Nazek will open the Casket of Shadows; There
are several possible locations for the Sabbat, but
rumour has it that it will be either at the stone circle to
the north of the village or in the Withered Wood to
the south. The second fact is that the coven has spies
everywhere — that is why I had to be so careful letting
you in. | just hope you were not seen on your...’

At that moment, the light in the room fades and the
temperature drops. Materializing in the centre of the
room is a shadowy, cowled figure. The manifestation
complete, you find yourself facing little more than a
dark shroud which is floating, half a metre above the
ground. Through holes in the shroud you can see the
remains of a ribcage while under the hood there is
nothing but utter darkness. The Dread Demon, which
sometimes appears to evil wizards at the moment of
their death, holds out its taloned hands to you and
hisses, “Your sssoul ...’ Roll one die and add 4. If the
201-202

total is less than, or equal to, your FAITH, tum to 255.
If the total is greater than your FA!TH, turn to 323.

201
It is going to be very difficult to remain perfectly still
while the scorpions are crawling over you. Test your
Skiff three times, adding 2 to the dice roll each time. If
you fail this roll even once, turn to 391. If you are
successful all three times, restore 1 Luck point and
turn fo 42.

202
‘No,’ he says, opening his empty right hand, then taking
the red ball out from under his hat. Coxcomb dances
away from your table, leaving you to retire to your
room. The night passes without incident and you wake
up, fully refreshed (restore up to 2 STAMINA points). You
leave the inn and are immediately caught up in the early-
morning throng of people already making their way up
the narrow street to the Market Square. Turn to 131

203-205

203
Walking info the hills. you soon come upon what at first
appears to be a small cave obscured by bushes. Looking
closer, you-see that the cave entrance je blocked by a
sturdy, round door. Will you investigate further in the
hope-of finding shelter forthe night (turn to 489) ar camp
here in the wilderness among the hilly (hurn ta 387)"

204
You return to the library with Prior Alw yn, where you
are Introduced to 4 young monk, thin-and scholarly in
sppearance. “This is Brother Calamus,’ Prior Alwyn
say6, He is ane .of our best illuminators and worked
under Brother Hieronymous. He will help you with
anything you need! Brother Calamus ushers you to a
feading-alcove and brings you some volumes Which
my be of use to you, You do not have much time to
spare in the library, so will you study:

Astradd’s Holy Lives? Turn to 123
An Astronomer's Almagest? Turn to 108
A Demonological Dissertation? Turn to 317

205
Once you are safely indoors the woman shuts and
Polls the door. In the kitchen of the small house with
vou and the woman are her five children, the youngest
me more than-a year old, You thank the woman for
net hospitality and discover that her name is Lida and
that she is a widow. She hands you a bow! of steaming
Sroth whith you eat (restore 2 STAMINA points) while
206-207

she explains what is going on. ‘It comes to Driteham
once every month on the same night,’ she says. ‘During
that night the Lurcher stalks the streets of the village,
looking for mortal souls to drag down to hell, Anyone
left outside after nightfall is damned.’ At that moment
you hear a dreadful moaning, of such wretchedness
that it sends a shiver up your spine, and the children
start crying in fear. ‘That's it. That's the Lurcher,’ says
Lida, with a harrowed expression. ‘None of us'll get
much sleep tonight,” That's true — unless you do
something to put a.stop to this bogeyman. Do you
want to persuade Lida to let you leave in order to find
an answer to this ‘haunting’ (tum to 78) or do you
prefer to stay where you are and try to get some rest
(turn to 130)?

206

As you creep up the steps out of the chamber, you
hear Tira hiss under her breath, ‘With salamanders’
tongues and scorpions’ stings I curse you.’ It suddenly
feels as though your body has received a crippling
blow from a cruel blade (lose 4 sTAMINA points, 2
SKILL points, 2 FAITH points and 1 Luck point). In
panic you flee the blockhouse, more in fear of the
witch than of the guards. It is only when you are clear
of the town that you stop to rest. Turn to 300.

207
You run through the forest until you are sure that the
outlaws have given up the chase. You emerge from
the trees, exhausted, a few hundred metres from the
village of Fenford, Turn to 100

208-209

208

Just in time you hear the swish of a branch springing
back into position across your path. You duck and the
branch harmlessly flies over your head. You press on
into the thicket, but soon you have lost all trace of the
brigands’ escape through the wood. Too late you
discover that you have ridden into a thombush. Your
horse’s flanks are bleeding from many smal] scratches,
as are your own legs (lose 1 STAMINA point), so you
turn back to the road. Turn to 191.

209

No one could survive having so much poison injected
into their body. Nazek’s spiders bite you again and
again. You quickly lose consciousness, never to re-
cover, Although you have defeated the Infernal Beast,
the Warlock still possesses the Black Grimoire and,
with such a book in his hands, no one will be able to
stop him.

210-213

210

Lifting the lid, you find that the sarcophagus is empty
except for a pile of mouldering grave clothes, Rummag-
ing through the rags, you discover a sickle with a golden
blade and a bunch of dried herbs which you recognize as
Skullsgrig — often used as part of the embalming
process, You can take the Golden Sickle or the herbs, or
both, before continuing on your way. Turn to 134.

211
The gamblers are very excited because Old Growler,
as the bear is called, killed a Brician war-hound here
last night As a result, the odds on Old Growler
winning are 2-1, whereas the odds on the maastifts,
Ripper and Slasher, winning are 3-1. This means that
it is more likely that the bear will be victorious but, if
the dogs win, you will receive more money for your
stake. You can bet up to 10 Gold Pieces. Decide which
side you will back then tum to 337.

212

As the silver touches the Wraith Rider, the metal
burns into the spectral fiend’s undead flesh. The crea-
ture lets out a chilling scream and releases its grip on
your arm, The horse rears and you lose your balance,
toppling backwards off the hellish steed. Test your
Luck. If you are Lucky, tum to 36. If you are Unlucky,
turn to 229

21%
Introducing yourself to the friar, you risk all and tell
him about your quest. ‘Well,’ he grunts, taken aback

214

‘the times are wild indeed. I have heard of the Black
Grimoire but know nothing of its whereabouts. How-
ever, | may be able to help you concerning the
Demafrauge — the Casket of Shadows. Centuries ago,
Enthus the Martyr trapped the Kurakil, the Infernal
Beast, in the casket, locking the chest with magic. {f it
is to be opened again, then you will need the spell to
keep it locked. You will have to ask the spirits of the
dead for guidance. Enthus’s tomb is in the heart of
Blackmire, the area of marshland near Fenford. You
should leave now, as Shekka’s Moon is only one day
away and it js still a fair distance to Claybury.’ Thank-
ing Barnabas the friar, will you leave as he suggests
(turn to 48) or will you talk to the man in black first
(turn to 34.8)?

2 te.
While you are receiving everyone’s congratulations,
you do not notice that your pocket is being picked.
Roll one die. If you roll 1-2, turn to 369; 3-4, turn to
103; 5—6, turn to 62.

215-217

215

Bursting into the lavishly fumished tower room, you
catch its occupant off guard; he is counting his ill-
gotten booty at a large oak table. The man looks up at
your rude interruption. He is wearing a long black
cloak and under his hood is an iron face-plate — the
Mask! ‘So, we have an intruder in our midst, or
perhaps you are a spy! he says, drawing a sword
which glows with a faint blue light from its scabbard
with a gauntlet-clad hand. ‘Fool, you shall pay for
your audacity with your life!’

THE MASK SKILL 11 STAMINA 12

If you defeat the devious outlaw, turn to 351

216

Running through the maggot pit, you slip on the slime
underfoot and lose your balance. As you lie, helpless,
in the fetid sludge, the Carrier Flies sting you repeatedly
before you can get to your feet, Roll one die, halve
the result (round halves up) and add 1 to the total, to
give a number between 2 and 4. Add this total to
your INFECTION score. On your feet once more, you
make a dash for the door. Tum to 354.

217
Cries of surprise and horror go up from the assembled
Resistance as, with your killing blow, Nazek’s assassin
is revealed to them. The cowled shroud falls to the
ground and crumbles to dust, and the taloned hands
shrivel away. Your wounds tended to, Karad speaks to
the Resistance. ‘It is time,’ he says. ‘Dusk is falling and
218

the Cauldron will be gathering at the site of the
Sabbat. We shall leave in small groups and meet again
at the site. May Checlah §° with you,” Karad turns to
you "We do not have time to make mistakes in
finding the ‘site. Where do you advise us to look?’
With the knowledge you have gathered, will it be,

The stone circle? Turn to 326
The Withered Wood? Tum to 95
The monastery? Turn to 159

219-220

219
Coxeomb pulls an exaggerated|y thoughtful face then
lumps on to the table putting his hands on his knees.
‘What did the first tree say to the second ree? He
Pauses for dramatic effect, The crowd now gathered
round your table waity in lense anticipation, ‘Not

early-moming throng of people already making their
way along the narrow street to the Market Square,
Turn to 232.

220
The stranger carries no symbol of the dark goddess,’
one villager calls back to the Inquisitor.
‘Then they must face the second Ordeal!’

You are carried to stinking pond at the tdge of the
village and your wrists and ankles are bound ‘TF the
221-223

three minutes, then they have passed the second
Ordeal and must face the last,’ the Inquisitor pro-
nounces. Several men pick you up and hurl you into
the pond. You hit the water and sink beneath it
Before you float back up to the surface, you clutch at a
clump of weed and hold yourself under — you are not
going to be found guilty of witchcraft by such an
unjust trial, especially after all you have been through!
Roll one die. If you roll 1-3, turn to 338. If you roll
4-6, turn to 368.

s

221
The Zombies freeze as they get close to you, sensing
your inherent Goodness. They can do nothing but hiss
as you push the doors open enough to squeeze
through. Tum to 259.

222
Dashing down a side-alley, you plan to lose the
militiamen in the labyrinthine network of streets, then
make your way back to the unguarded South Gate.
You soon emerge close to the town wall and run back
towards the gate. Test your Luck. If you are Lucky, turn
to 8. If you are Unlucky, turn to 88.

223
You prepare to deliver the final blow when the outlaw
blurts out, ‘The Mask will hear about this! You'll never
get out of the forest alive!’ Who was that she mentioned?
If you want to press the woman for more information
about the Mask, turn to 26, If you do not, ignoring her
threats you dispatch the outlaw; turn to 158.

2247227

224
The herbs Aramance and Tagrin both have properties
which help ward off disease. By eating either of the
plants you will reduce any additions to your INFEC-
TION score by 1 point, even if this reduces them to
zero, Eating both plants will have the same effect as
eating just one. Now turn to 3214.

225
The Inquisitor has been taken over by a power of great
evil, making him incredibly strong. You have no choice
but to fight this man possessed — the Demoniac.

DEMONIAC SKILL 12 STAMINA 12

If you reduce the Demoniac’s sTaMINA to 2 points or
less, turn to 345.

226
Having made your offering, you cross the bridge and
enter the town through the eastem Pilgrim’s Gate
Turn to 254.

227

Dressed as one of the outlaws, no one gives you a
second glance as you stride across the courtyard to-
wards the keep. You have almost reached your goal
when one of the brigands calls out to you, ‘All right,
Gex?’ Obviously he must think that you are someone
else, You nod in reply and hurry on, trying to keep
your head down. Test your Luck. If you are Lucky, turn
to 378. If you are Unlucky, turn to 358.
(tet
Be

Ll sy cyan Fad LLL

i
‘

aw

amrrercnu

_
sian ae

meyers
pa ee ee tere ee

Torri aiie see

—

| ‘Y TH: rs
jon meant

Jul rrr
ihe

: ~eid*

228-231

228

Now that any element of surprise you may have had
has gone, you clamber up the now immobile crow’s
foot to the trapdoor and enter the cottage. The interior
of the cottage is just what you would expect of a
witch: rickety shelves are packed with jars and bottles,
herbs hang from the rafters, a small cauldron bubbles
over a fire in the hearth and several musty books lie
on a table. The room is also full of Mistress Crowfoot’s
familiars! A black cat is sitting on the table watching
you with its green eyes, while a large, warty toad
squats on the wooden floor croaking. A Grimalkin sits
above the hearth, while a rat without a tail scampers
round the room. Perched on the back of a chair is a
large raven, and a bat flits from one side of the room
to the other. If you have a Jar of Powder, turn to 388.
if you haver’t, turn to 132.

229
There is nothing to break your fall from such a
tremendous height — until you hit the ground. Your
adventure ends here.

2350
You manage to grab a torch from the wall and thrust
it in the bear’s face. It growls and backs away. Using
the blazing torch to guide it, you succeed in forcing
the beast back into its cage and throw home the bolt.
Turn to 382,

231
Drawing on all your powers of concentration, you
232-233

block out the hypnotic tune long enough to draw
your sword and strike the fiddler, knocking its instru-
ment from its bony grasp. At once the Dance of Death
stops, then the skeletons are upon you, Keeping your
back to the tombstone, you fight them one at a
time.

SKILL STAMINA
Firsts DANCING DEAD 6 5
Second DANCING DEAD 5 5
Third DANCING DEAD 6 4
Fourth DANCING DEAD 5 4
Fifth DANCING DEAD 7 5

If you win, you flee from the abandoned graveyard.
Turn to 435.

233
You lay down your sword and, pulling the purse
containing your gold (or lack of it) from your backpack
toss it in front of you on to the road, Just as you
hoped, the leader of the outlaws jumps down from the
branch to pick up the purse. Now is your chance to
secure your freedom. With lightning speed, you pick
up your sword and dash at the woman in hopes of
taking her hostage. Test your Skill. If you are successful
turn to 255. If you fail. turn to 365.

333
You climb up on the horse behind its rider, and with «
shout the man urges his steed towards Selwick. The
horse gallops along the road at great speed — then
suddenly rises into the air! {t continues to run although

234-235

its hoofs are no longer in contact with the ground, and
it climbs upwards into the night sky. The earth is
falling away rapidly beneath you. As if you were not
startled enough already, the man turns around, laugh-
ing at you insanely, and a terrible transformation takes
place. The rider's skin contracts, becoming taut over
his bones, then pales to a deathly grey. His fine
clothes change into tattered rags and, with his disguise
shed, you see that his mount is a hellish, undead horse.
The Wraith Rider grabs your arm with unearthly
strength so that you cannot es You must act fast.
Will you strike the Wraith Rider with your sword
(turn to 343) or hit it with something silver, if you
possess such an object (turn to 222)?

234
As you point the ring at the Demon, you become
aware of Nazek's cruel laughter over the sounds of
battle behind you. ‘My friend,’ he calls out fo you in
that oh-so-familiar mocking tone, “you should not
wear such dangerous trinkets.’ With a few mystical
words Nazek triggers one of the spells woven into the
hag-cursed ring and at once your body begins to
decay, crumbling to dust as a century passes in seconds,
Soon you are no more than a skeleton. ready to be
raised by the Warlock to fight in his army of Evil.

335
When the falconer has finished dealing with the noble,
he explains to you that you can buy a trained falcon,
and a protective leather gauntlet, for 4 5 Gold Pieces, If
you can afford this price and want to buy the bird,
236—238

turn to 2148. If you do not, you go on round the
market (turn to 365),

236

The marshman presents you with wild duck, roasted
over an open fire, which you devour hungrily (restore
up to 4 STAMINA points). When you have eaten your
fill, Sam offers to show you the way out of Blackmire.
‘However, if you wish, I could first take you to the
tomb of Enthus the Martyr, if you think it will help
you. It is located on an island in Miremere, the lake in
the heart of the swamp.’ Do you want to visit Enthus’s
tomb (turn to 31), or do you want to leave Blackmire
as quickly as possible (turn to 79)?

237
Blackmire is like a maze. Paths cross and re-cross and
you cannot know for sure where you are. You choose
a path and follow it. Roll one die. If you roll:

1 Turn to 285
2 Turn to 97
3 Turn to 302
4 Turn to 174
5o0r6 Turn to 43

238
You manage to get a little more rest before dawn, but
at daybreak you prepare to leave the abbey. The
storm has passed but the sky remains overcast and
ominous. The Abbot tells you that the library is open
to your use and you may visit the herb garden in case

239-240

there are any plants growing there which you think
may be of use. ‘However,’ he says, I cannot impress
on you too greatly the need for haste in this matter.
You have but four days to find Nazek and the book.’
Bearing the Abbot's words in mind, you decide what
your first move will be. Do you want to:

Study some of the books in the

library? Turn to 204
Visit the herb garden? Turn to 366
Leave the abbey straight away? Tum to 277

239
As you shower the leathery-winged bat with the
powder, the Grimalkin bites your leg and the cat
scratches you (lose 4 STAMINA points). Tum to 132.

24.0
Pulling the lid over the top of the barrel, you crouch
in silence, awaiting the arrival of the guards. You do
not have to wait long. The first militiamen arrive and
puzzle over where you could have gone. One of them
then has the sense to start looking in the barrels. Roll
one die. On a roll of 1—2, turn to 129; ona roll of 3-6,
turn to 67,

A Ay
. ati My
ee ~ f j
Lat!
a. > F
5 f ¥"
wa
.
WN
‘7 '
wul|
f, .
ing.
a Se “= : -—

7

241

241
You walk out into the centre of the village and,
putting the pipes to your lips, you begin to blow. At
once a beautiful tune rises from them, slow and mys-
terious. You are suddenly aware of hundreds of pairs of
eyes watching you Crawling out of the cellars and
sewers of Aryll, in their hordes, come the rats. Some
are thin and scrawny, while others are as large as dogs
and are covered in coarse black hair. You can see their
sharp, yellow teeth and in every red eye there is a
look of sheer malevolence, The tune played by the
pipes increases in pace and the rats swarm towards
you in a river of furry bodies, You lead the way out of
the village to the barn and find yourself skipping
along to the dancing rhythms of the melody. Every
last rat follows you into the barn and, once they are all
inside, the villagers slam the doors shut and bar them
Then the people of Aryl! set fire to the dry straw
heaped round the barn with blazing torches. If the plan
is to work, you must keep playing until the last
possible moment or the rats will escape. Smoke billows
into the barn and flames start to lick up the walls. The
rats, as if in a trance, ignore the imminent danger until
you can see that the roof of the barn is ablaze and you
stop playing. All at once the bam is filled with the
terrified squeaking of the rats trying to flee but finding
themselves surrounded by walls of flame. As the doors
are barred, your only means of escape is via the
hayloft. As you dash across the barn to the ladder
which leads up to the hayloft, the plague-rats try to
bite you. Roll one die and add 1 to the result. Increase
your INFECTION score by this total and also lose that

242-243

many points from your STAMINA score. You scramble
up the ladder and run towards the opening in the wall
at the end of the hayloft. Test your Luck. If you are
Lucky, turn to 19. If you are Unlucky, turn to 329.

242
The village well is located at the edge of Mussuck
where the ground begins to descend steeply towards
an abandoned watermill; its great wheel has been still
for many years, although a small stream still feeds the
mill race. Peering down the stone-lined shaft, you can
see nothing in the darkness. The rope with the bucket,
used to draw water from the well, lies coiled on the
ground. Do you want to climb down into the well
using the rope (turn to 107), tie your lantern to the
rope and lower it down into the darkness {turn to 139!
or drop a stone down the well first to see how deep it
is (turn to 176)?

243
The gourd hits the Devilworm’s head, spilling its

contents over the creature. The monster immediately
begins to shrink until it is no longer than your finger

4

244

The spiteful Wodewitch had used her growth potion
on an ordinary waterworm, tuming it into the monster
that has been terrorizing Mussuck. Putting the worm
in the empty gourd, you take it to show the villagers,
Turn to 52

244
The tapestry is a very fine piece of work and is worth
every gold piece you paid for it, The trials faced by
the pilgrims shown include the party being attacked
by a band of inhuman creatures, crossing a fiery pit by
a narrow stone bridge and having to overcome an
ugly Hill Giant. Finally the group reach Achilla’s shrine
and are all shown, surrounded by a green light. How-
ever, one scene in particular catches your attention.
One of the pilgrims, having apparently been killed by
a Werebear, is being resurrected by his companions
who are pouring water on his wounds from a golden-
glowing flask. Having studied the tapestry in some
detail, you carefully stow it away in your backpack
Return to 80

— ee
245-246

245
Concentrating on the Warlock, you jab the pin into
the doll’s stomach. At the other end of the room
Nazek stumbles back from the lectern, holding his
midriff. Your plan worked, but in using black magic
you have shaken your own faith in the powers of
Good (lose 2 FAITH points), Regretting your action,
you charge into the fray. Turn to 3169,

246
The Dwarf introduces ‘himself as Drogo and explains
the rules of Eclipse. To play the game you are required
to place a stake of between 5 and 10 Gold Pieces,
which Drogo will then match. If you cannot, or do not
want to, lay down this stake, you will have to leave
the tavern instead (turn to 313)

Eclipse is played on a circular wooden board, with 20
counters placed on a ring divided into 20 sections
Fifteen of the counters are shaped like suns and the
remaining five are of a moon design. The players
begin on opposite sides of the board and take turns to
roll the die, moving their token round the ring in an
anti-clockwise direction. Any counter a player lands
on he keeps. If a player lands on a square already
occupied by his opponent, then the opponent must
give him a sun counter, if the opponent possesses any
Once all the counters have been removed from the
board, the scores are totalled up. Sun counters count
towards the total, whereas moon counters ‘eclipse’ the
suns and so are subtracted from the total. (For example
if you had won 8 sun counters but had also picked up

:

246

3 moon counters, then your total score would be 5.)
Ignoring the counter you start on, you begin the game
on the positions marked. Of course you will have
to roll the die for both yourself and Drogo and cross
the counters off as they are landed on by you or your
Opponent.

your Start

am

Drogo’s Start

Whoever has the higher total of suns at the end of the
game wins back his own stake-money and that of the

247

other player. In the event of a draw, you may either
play the game again or pick up your own stake-money
and leave. When you have finished playing, you leave
the tavern. Turn to 313.

247
As you run at the creature, it throws the liquid from a
gourd over you. The Potion of Transformation takes
effect immediately. A large toad crawls out of the pile
of clothes which is lying where you were standing and
looks around at its new, swampy home. Your adven-
ture is over.

248-249

248
As you walk past the beggar he calls out, “You're all
the same, you selfish misers. A curse on you, stranger!’
You are filled with a sense of dread at the old man’s
words (lose 1 FAITH point and make a note of the
Beggar's Curse on your Adventure Sheet). Following
the line of pilgrims, you enter the temple, Turn to 171.

249

Having rested after your terrible ordeal, you continue
your trek through the barren hills with renewed deter-
mination. Grey clouds scud across the overcast sky.
You are filled with a strong sense of the past as you
walk through the highlands; the very earth under your
feet feels ancient, Then you see it. Rising up ahead of
you on the horizon is the mound of earth that is
Gwythain’s Barrow. Before you can reach the barrow
you have to pass through a circle of tall stones. As
soon as you enter the circle, you are surrounded by a

250-251

group of people clad in white robes, The druids take
hold of you and drag you before their High Priest,
who is wearing a ceremonial horse-skull mask and
mane, “This is sacred ground,’ says the High Priest.
‘What is your purpose here?’ Will you reply that you
wish to enter Gwythain’s Barrow (turn to 111) or try
to bluff your way out by saying that you found
yourself here by accident (turn to 305)?

"y

250
Is the Demafrauge still open? If it is, turn to 356. If it
has been locked, turn to 263.

251
You ask the elders if you can be taken to the place
where the crypt is said to be. The village tanner,
Gerog, leads you to the spot at the bottom of the hill
At the point where the stone used to rest, part of the

252-253

hillside has caved in, opening a way into the earth.
You are determined to deal with this terror once and
for all. Lighting your lantern, you enter the tunnel,
watched by an anxious Gerog. Your lantern casts
flickering shadows over the walls of the tunnel as you
follow its twists and turns through the darkness, Turn-
ing a corner, you hear a snarl, then you see the
gigantic rat running towards you down the tunnel.
The beast is at least one and a half metres in length
and the diseased yellow of its eyes tells you that it too
is a plague carrier.

PLAGUE RAT SKILL 6

If you kill the rat, add 2 to your INFECTION score and
turn to 195,

STAMINA 5

252
Remembering Lady Attana of Ide’s request, you pick
up the jewellery box and, turning the key in the lock,
find it opens easily. Inside is a necklace of Elven
prayer-beads. You take the necklace, as Lady Attana
said you could, and feel their power (add 1 to your
FAITH). Turn to 373.

253

Before she can even reach the money, you grab the
outlaw and twist her arm behind her back while you
press your sword against her neck. You tell the rogues
to drop their weapons, but you spin around as you
hear another of the brigands trying to creep up on
you. You do not react in time, however, to stop the
club making contact with your shoulder (lose 2
STAMINA points). Turn to 312. i
eit

phe

5

254-255

254

The darkening sky tells you that night is coming on,
so your thoughts turn to looking for a place to sleep.
Following other visitors to the town along the narrow
street leading into Hallow’s Well, you are soon at-
tracted by the enticing lights of the Ragged Clown,
Inside, a jovial mood holds sway over the bar as a
group of Dwarfs are competing to see which of them
can down the most Crun Cider, while the resident
jester entertains the guests at their tables. You ap-
proach the landlord and purchase a hot meal and room
tor the night for 3 Gold Pieces (deduct these from
your Adventure Sheet), You sit down at a table while a
serving wench brings you your meal, and you are
soon relaxed and laughing with the clientele of the
inn. While you are watching the display put on by the
Dwarfs, the jester, wearing his motley costume and
ridiculous hat, skips up to your table and shakes his
bauble — a stick with a carved head — in your face. ‘For
one Gold Piece, Coxcomb the Clown will grant your
wish,’ the jester says in a squeaky voice, trying not to
move his lips. Will you toss Coxcomb a coin (turn to
286) or just ignore him (turn to 99)?

255

By the power of your faith you resist the strength of
the Demon. Unsheathing Deliverer, you prepare to do
battle against the hellspawn. It is only then that you
realize: no one else in the room can see the fiend! This
is a battle you must fight alone.

DREAD DEMON SKILL 9 STAMINA 8
256-259
If you kill the Demon, turn to 217.

256
‘So, the stranger is a servant of Shekka! Then the witch
must die!’ orders the Inquisitor. They move towards
you, swords at the ready. Your adventure is over.

257
The rat sinks its teeth into your arm (lose 2 STAMIN«
points and record the Rat Bite on your Adventure
Sheet). Turn to 377. .

258

Nazek stumbles, falling backwards to the ground. You
raise Deliverer above your head to deal the death
blow when a thunderclap reverberates round the crypt.
You are frozen to the spot in fear as a terrible, evi
sentience, millennia old, tries to force its way inte
your mind. The night of Shekka's Moon is the time
when the dark goddess’s influence is at [ts greatest a
the world, and at this moment she is using her own
powers directly against you. Roll one die and add >. ©
the total rolled is less than, of equal to, your rarrs
turn bo 400. If it is greater. turn to 166,

359
Beyond the doors you find yourself in a large cavern
your lantern barely illuminating the roof of the cave
As you begin to walk across the chamber, the ground
becomes softer underfoot and ... What was thas?
Something cold and clammy just squirmed agains:
your legs, Looking down, you are filled with revulsice

260-261

at the sight that meets your eyes: the cavern seems to
be full of huge, bloated, green maggots which are
writhing around in the slime that covers the cave
floor, Disgusted, you hastily run towards the other
side of the cave where you can make out another
stone door. All at once a terrible buzzing fills the air,
You look up and see a mass of winged bodies, covered
in stiff green hairs and at least half a metre in length,
flying straight at you, The multi-faceted eyes of the
Carrier Flies reflect the light from your lantem while
long, sharp mouth-parts dart in and out in anticipation.
Test your Luck. If you are Lucky, turn to 554. If you are
Unlucky, turn to 236.

260
It ts with great courage that you plunge your hand
into the brazier, The pain is unbearable and when you
pull out your blackened hand, if is reeking of burnt
flesh. ‘The accused is guilty,” says the Inquisitor calmly,
leaving you to the crowd, Your adventure ends here.

261
As you climb up the hill, you pass others of all classes,
some being carried in sedan chairs, others on crutches,
all in search of a miracle cure for their aches and pains.
At the top of the hill is the temple to the goddess, It is
an unassuming stone building and the approach to its
pillared entrance is lined with beggars, some blind,
some with missing limbs, others suffering from terrible
wasting diseases. One old man, whose skin is almost
completely covered in ulcers and open sores, calls out
weakly to you, ‘Spare a dying man a piece of gold,

262

stranger.’ Will you throw him a Gold Piece {turn to
372) or will you ignore him and enter the temple (turn
to 248)?

262
Trying to look as sorcerous as possible, you stride
boldly over to the wagon, At your approach the mar.
looks up and in a gruff voice says, ‘What can I do for
you?’

‘I wish to purchase some of your wares,’ you say
‘May I see them?/:The man pulls aside the canvas
awning at the back of the wagon, revealing its con-
tents. The wagon is crammed full of bottles, crates anc
sacks which, the man explains, contain everything
from Sting Worm slime and shrunken heads to Giant
Spider venom and rare spices. The man tells you tha‘
every month he makes the journey to Hallow’s Well
where he stays for a week selling more usual wares in
the markets. He then goes to Driteham for one nigh:
to sell ingredients and equipment that they cannot finc
easily in the local area to the witches and sorcerers of
these remote parts. ‘The Lurcher keeps suspicious villag-
ers away, although | don’t know how much longer I'2
keep this up because trading with necromancers makes
me nervous. Oh ... no offence intended,’ he apolo-
gizes. If you want to buy anything from the merchant
the articles that interest you most are listed below
However, if you now change your mind and decide te
attack the man, turn to 26%,

Mummified Hand — a withered hand, taken from ar.
embalmed corpse. Cost: 5 Gold Pieces.

263

Sleeping Grass Pollen — with a successful Test for Skill, a
pouch of Sleeping Grass pollen can be thrown, releas-
ing the sleep-inducing pollen and knocking the oppo-
nent out, and allowing you to finish him off. It will
not affect the Undead, Demons or evil spirits. You
may buy up to three pouches. Cost: 3 Gold Pieces per
pouch

Driggen — Driggen is a herb from the southern part of
the Old World, renowned for its ability to grow in
even the driest conditions. There is only one bunch for
sale. Cost: 2 Gold Pieces.

Silver Sickle — a finely made sickle with a blade of
purest silver, Cost: 6 Gold Pieces.

Having made your purchases, the merchant and the
Lurcher climb back up on the wagon and leave
the village in the direction of Hallow's Well. Turn to

383.

263
The Demon roars and swings a taloned hand in your
direction; it misses your throat by a whisker. Deliverer
is ablaze with blue light as you wield the Blessed
Blade against the Infemal Beast.

KURAKIL SKILL 12 STAMINA 18

After every Attack Round, roll one die. If you roll
5~6, the Beast’s tail lashes around, striking you for an
additional 2 points of damage to your sTAMINA. If
you are triumphant at the end of this titanic battle,
turn to 283

264

264

Evening is drawing on as you leave the brooding
forest. You cross the Grimiry River at a point where a
rope is secured to both banks, allowing you to pull
yourself across on a raft. Leaving the ferry, you press
on across a barren moorland which rises gradually
away from the forest. Dark storm clouds are building
over the highlands, still a long way away in the west.
Night falls with no shelter in sight. You make camp
not far from the road beneath a solitary standing stone
which has an eye inside a circle carved on to its
surface, It is not long before sleep overcomes you . .

You are standing in the centre of a village which is
being put to the torch by a crowd of witches and
ugly, homed Demons. Villagers run, screaming, past
you as they are pursued by foul creatures from the Pit.
Above the screams of the dying and the crackling of
fares you carn hear 4 roar. Looking up, you see a
huge demonic beast rampaging towards you through
the carnage ... What can this mean? Is it a glimpse of
what |s yet to come, for that is the power of the
prophecy stone?

You wake up in the middle of the night, to feel the
wind picking up round you. At first it is no more than
a breeze, but soon it has increased to gale strength. All
kinds of debris, including small rocks, gets lifted into
the air and is blown round and round, spiralling
upwards into the night sky. Above the howling of the
wind you are sure you can hear a distant cackling. The
gale is now a devastating hurricane. You fling your
arms round the prophecy stone in order to stop

265-266

yourself being blown off your feet. Your body is lifted
into the air and it is all you can do to hang on to the
stone. Roll three dice. If the total rolled is tess than, or
equal to, your current sTAMINA, turn to 124. If the
total is greater than your STAMINA, turn to 93.

265
Uncorking the flask, you pour the contents over
Enthus’s corpse, You wait, but nothing happens, The
Heal-all is effective only on living things and cannot
raise the dead (lose 1 tuck point for wasting the Heal-
all), Now will you try using the candles and prayer
(turn to 360) or the blood of a priest (tum to 296)?

266

The Brass Farthing is a pleasant little ale-house and it
is almost empty at this time of day. A Dwarf sits by a
window with a circular wooden board in front of him,
covered in counters, while a fat ginger cat sits dozing
on the bar. If you want a drink, it will cost 1 Gold
Piece and will restore 1 sTAMINA point. As you are
preparing to leave the tavern, the Dwarf calls out,
‘Would you care for a game of Eclipse?’ and he points
at the board. If you want to take the Dwarf up on his
offer, tum to 246. IF you would rather be on your
way, turn to 31%.

267-269

267

The corridor ends in a circular room, the walls of
which are decorated with scenes from the Protector’s
life. On the opposite side of the room is an open
archway. Standing here is a warrior wearing the ancient
armour of a tribal chief and carrying a double-headed
battle-axe. You see that under the armour the warrior’s
flesh is rotting and is covered in savage sword cuts. If
you are to proceed any further, you must fight the
Barrow Guard.

BARROW GUARD SKILL 9 STAMINA 8

Each time you are hit by the warrior, roll one die. If
you roll a 6, the huge battle-axe does 3 STAMINA
points of damage rather than the usual 2. If you defeat
the Barrow Guard, turn to 58

268
Although you concentrate hard, your prayers are not
answered. There is nothing more you can do here, so
you leave the tomb. Turn to 112

269
The militiamen, not expecting you to run directly at them,
are somewhat taken by surprise. You charge into one
of the guards and send him flying. The other two
draw their swords and attack. Fight them both at the
same time.

SKILL STAMINA
First MILITIAMAN 8 7
second MILITIAMAN 7 8

270

While you are locked in combat with his two compan-
ions, the guard you knocked over runs off to find
reinforcements. If you defeat the militiamen in ten or
fewer Attack Rounds, turn to 311. If the battle takes
longer than ten Attack Rounds, tum to 374.

270
The Kurakil growls and stalks towards you across the
plinth, What will you use against this denizen of the
Demonic Plane? Will you use:

A holy amulet? Tum to 304
A Rune-carved bone ring? Turn to 234
A sage’s bones? Tum to 5

A Demonic Word of Command? Turn to 364

If you cannot, or do not want to, use any of the
above, turn to 250

271-294

271
Filled with foreboding, you enter the mound under the
grey sky. Having passed between the two stones that
mark the way into the barrow, you light your lantern
and follow the tunnel into the mound. Test your Luck,
lf you are Lucky, turn to sge; if you are Unlucky, turn
to 104.

272
Leaving the bustling market, you walk past all kinds of
shops and houses, Passing by an alleyway, you notice
a figure, covered from head to foot in rags, lying face
down in the shadows. It could either be just a drunk or
someone in genuine distress who has possibly been
robbed, Do you want to help the person (turn to 71),
or will you hurry past (turn to 126)?

273
Inspecting the body of the Ogre, you find a necklace
of animal teeth, a maggot-ridden loaf of bread and a
crude flint knife — none of any use to you. You could
try to find the Ogre's lair, but this would be a
diversion that you do not have time for. Leaving the
scene of your battle, you soon reach the road going
westwards, It is not long, however, before you come
to a fork in the road. You can either carry on towards
the west (turn to 145) or take the new branch north
westwards (turn to 124).

274
As you travel further into the marsh you lose sight of
the hills because of the permanent murky haze here.

275

The path you are on gradually gets softer underfoot
and finally runs into the swamp. You jump across the
mire to a drier patch of ground, but soon this path
also disappears under the marsh and you have to
change course again. It is not long before you have
lost all sense of direction. Eventually you come to a
clearing, Will you continue:

Left? Turn to 198
Right? Turn to 237
Straight ahead? Turn to 301

275
In an attempt to lose your pursuers you run throug>
the maze of back-streets leading, you hope, in the
direction of the Market Square. Test your Luck. If you
are Lucky, you get away but find yourself closer +c
the South Gate than the Market Square (turn to 157
If you are Unlucky, the acolytes catch up with you
you are overwhelmed and dragged back to their leadez
(turn to 51)

276—277

276

‘l had to make sure you weren’t one of the Cauldron,’
says the man, ‘but I still don’t know if I can trust you
You could be a spy for them!’ Do you have any token
with which you can prove your Goodness to this
suspicious and mistrustful man? If you have the Ilithorn
Rose, turn to 324. If you do not have the rose but do
have any of the following: pilgrim’s staff, bishop's
portrait, Aline’s shroud, Gwythain’s shield, Elven
prayer beads, Test your Luck. If you are Lucky, turn to
324. If you are Unlucky, the man will have nothing
more to do with you and storms out of the inn. You
decide that there is no point in your hanging around
here either, so you also leave. Turn to 48.

277
The Abbot, Prior Alwyn and a small group of brothers
assemble in the yard of the abbey to bid you farewell.
‘May Cheelah smile on your wanderings,’ says Abbot
Dunstan. “And remember, all our blessings go with
you.’ As he speaks these words, you are filled with
feelings of hope and security (add 2 points to your
FAITH score). The other pilgrims are already taking
their leave of the brothers and continuing the pilgrim-
age to Hallow’s Well. With a fresh stock of Provisions
and your sword at your side, you prepare to do the
same.

278

Just as you are stepping through the gates of Rassin
Abbey and leaving the hospitality of the Priests of
Enkala behind you, a servant, wearing the livery of some
noble house, rushes up to you, Excuse me,’ he pants, ‘but
my mistress, Lady Attana of Ide, heard that you were
staying here and wondered if such a skilled swordsman
as yourself would consider accompanying her to
Hallow’s Well. My lady is all too well aware of the
dangers of travelling, what with wild beasts and bandits
on the road, and she feels the need of extra protection
after last night's terrible storm, which she feels was not
of natural origin.’ Your reputation goes before you. You
have only been here a night but already word of your
presence has spread round the abbey visitors. ‘My
mistress is prepared to pay for your services,’ the
servant adds with a look of hopeful expectation. The
money may certainly prove useful later, and there is
something to be said about safety in numbers, but you
do not want your progress to be slowed in any way It
you want to accompany Lady Attana to Hallow’s Well
turn to 166. If you would rather travel alone, turn to 44

278
Blows from a weapon forged on earth have no effec:
on the Wraith Rider. There is nothing you can do 2s

279

the spectral fiend carries you high above the hills,
before dropping you hundreds of metres on to the
rocky crags below

279

The elders, two men and a woman, listen as you tell
them that you want to help free the village of the
plague. “Aryll is overrun with rats,” says Edgar, one of
the elders, ‘and it is dearly these vile creatures which
are carrying the plague. We ourselves have a plan to
rid the village of them. If we could trap the rats in an
old barn on the outskirts of Aryll, then we could
destroy ther, but we can think of no way of luring
them all into the same place at the same time.’ If you
have a set of Charmed Pipes, you may be able to help
the villagers (turn to 242). If you do not, there is little
you can do, so you leave Aryll; turn to 359

280

280

It is midday when you reach Tallow, at the foot of the
western hills. Entering the village, the place seers to
be deserted However, walking between the empty
houses, you can hear shouting coming from the heart
of the village. Tallow’s market-place is full of a jostling
crowd. On the far side of the square a large stake has
been erected. Tied to the stake is a haggard-looking
young woman and round her feet faggots of wood
have been heaped. A hush descends over the crowd as
the people strain to listen to a figure standing in front
of them, The man is wearing heavy travelling clothes
and a thick, hooded cloak which hides his face com-
pletely. The man faces the crowd and speaks: “The
times are troubled. Crops wither and die, animals and
people sicken, the sun has been hidden for days, dark
stormclouds gather over the hills — and why? These
things are all omens of bewitchment. All manner of
devilry is abroad. Did not the wells of Graman dry up
after the people shunned the Nighthag, while last
Stormsday it rained blood in Addersfield! I tell you,
these are portents of damnation to come, brought on
you by creatures like her!’ he shouts, pomting at the
girl

‘Burn the witch!’ shouts a man, and soon the whole
crowd has taken up the cry: ‘Burn the witcht BURN
THE WITCHY

An old woman at the edge of the square turns, hearing
you approach, and you see she is almost hysterical, in
floods of tears. Recovering herself for a moment she
sobs, ‘Oh, stranger, you looks like an honest person

281

Please help my grand-daughter. She is a healer by
trade, but she has been falsely accused of witchcraft
and found guilty by the Inquisitor. She is innocent!
Please help her.’

You cannot stand by and see such injustice pass unchal-
lenged. (If you want to, and if you have one, you may
drink a potion now.) ‘Stop!’ you shout over the top of
the crowd; in an instant there is silence. “This girl has
done no wrong, You cannot allow her to be killed.’

‘So, says the Inquisitdr, ‘one stands there, defending
the witch. Why, they must be a witch too! They must
face the Ordeals! You are grabbed from all sides, your
sword is taken from you and you are hurriedly
searched. If you have the Witch’s Mark or a Crescent
Moon Amulet, turn to 256. Otherwise, turn to 220,

281

You manage a fair impression of an owl hooting by
cupping a hand round your mouth. The bird-call you
heard was made by one of the Mask’s lookouts. The
outlaws know they must reply to the signal, since
anyone who does not hoot back must be a trespasser
and all trespassers are killed on sight. Restore 1 LUCK
point

At last the trees thin out and you enter a large
clearing. Before you is the Mask’s camp, built inside
the ruins of a walled outpost. You reach the wall
without being noticed and, using creepers growing
between the stones to help you, easily climb up to the
battlements. Making sure that no one can see you,

282-283

you survey the area. To your right is the main gate,
flanked by guard towers. Beyond that, inside the wall,
are the stables and standing beside them is a cart full
of hay. In the middle of the camp is a well and to your
left are the remains of a small keep. The only other
people visible are a group of brigands, sharpening
their swords and knives, on the other side of the
courtyard, Most of the outlaws must be out patrolling
the forest. You drop down silently from the wall and
consider your next move. Will you make directly for
the keep (turn to 227) or first try to cause a distraction
in order to divert attention away from your actions
(turn to 315)?

282
It is too late. The gates slam shut im front of the horse,
which whinnies and rears, overtuming the haycart and
throwing you and the bewildered farmer on to the
road You are immediately held by several militiamen
and frogmarched to a nearby blockhouse. Turn to 25

283

With all the force you can muster, you drive Deliverer
between the scales of the Demon's chest and into its
diabolical heart. Blue flames race along the length of
the sword, bathing you and the Demon in their cool
light. At once the body of the Kurakil starts to burn
with the fires of Hell as its spirit is banished to the
Outer Planes.

With the Infernal Beast destroyed, you can tum your
attention to Nazek. He is holding the Black Grimotre in

284

front of him. Too late you realize that he is casting yet
another spell! Materializing all over your body are
dozens of small, hairy, black bodies. Desperately you
try to brush the spiders off, but some manage to craw!
inside your clothes and bite you with their venomous
fangs. If you have the potion called Venom’s Bane.
turn to the paragraph with the same number as that of
the page containing the recipe for this potion in Sam’s
book. If you do not have this potion, turn to 209

284
It is the best you can do, but your rather mundane ta<
of sword and sorcery does not have what it takes <<
win against the stories of the other contestants, Every-
one agrees that the grey-haired man’s tale was the
best, so he receives the prize-money. Disgruntled, you
retire to your room (turn to 179),

285-288

285
You rest for a moment on a log in a small clearing,
Growing on the rotten bark is a dull grey fungus
known as Death’s Shroud because of its shape and
colour You cannot remember whether it is poisonous
or beneficial, but if you wish to you may take some.
Leaving the clearing, will you go:

Left? Turn to 43

Right? Tum to 59

Straight ahead? Turn to 5
286

You throw the clown a Gold Piece; he deftly catches it
in his hat, which he then puts back on his head back-
to-front. ‘Now then,’ Coxcomb says in his own voice,
‘what'll it be: a joke, a song, or a trick?’ What will you
reply?

A joke? Turn to 219

A song? Turn to 318

A trick? Turn to 20
287

You heave yourself over the wail just as the crossbow
bolt hits the spot where you were a moment ago. You
drop down on the other side into a bush, then run as
fast as possible away from the town and out of arrow
range. Turn to 300.

288
Taken by surprise, you slip in the mud, The monster
traps you in a bear-hug and jumps back into the water.

289

Your assailant is trying to drown you in the foul mire
With your arms pinned to your sides you are unable
to draw your sword, so you must try to wrestle
yourself free. You have six Attack Rounds before you
will run out of air. Conduct the following battle as
normal but if either you or your assailant loses an
Attack Round, do not deduct any sTAMINa points

MARSH ASSAILANT SKILL 8

If you win two consecutive Attack Rounds before six
Attack Rounds have, passed, you break free and
scramble out of the mire; turn to 11. If you do not,
then the stinking waters of Blackmire claim another
victim . . .

289

Searching the streets of Claybury, everything seems to
be normal except that the villagers watch you suspi-
ciously and avoid you as they go about their business.
At last, down an alleyway you find what you are
looking for. Above a sturdy door, the outline of a
tower has been carved into the lintel. You knock on
the door and immediately a panel slides back at eye-
level. Karad’s face appears at the opening: ‘What do
you want?’

‘But it’s me,’ you say, taken aback

‘How do I know you're who you say you are? You
could be a Demonic Shape-shifter,’ he says. ‘What's
the password?’ If Karad is to believe you, you must
repeat the password. If you can remember what it is,
multiply the number in the password by 50 and tum

290-292

to the paragraph which is the same as the total. If you
cannot remember the password or if you get it wrong,
tum to 371.

290
The common herbs for sale are the following: Madder.
used in potions known to physicians as ‘wound drinks’
because it stops bleeding and prevents inflammation;
Belladonna, a tried and tested protection against the
bite of were-creatures; Scarlet Lady, often burnt as an
incense; and Drake Nettle, used in some fire protec-
bons, You may buy as many bunches of herbs as you
like, at 1 Gold Piece per bunch, as long as you can
afford them, When you are ready, you can also buy
some rarer herbs (turn to 113) or a tot of Healing
Infusion (turn to 35), or leave the apothecaries’ stall
(turn to $89).

291
The flailing hoofs miss your chest by a hair’s breadth.
Dashing round the stall, you see a flash of red disap-
pear into the shadows. Turn to 72.

292
The oil from your lantern splashes over the hellish
creature and bursts into flames. It screams in pain and
lurches towards you.

CANKER SKILL 6

If you defeat this spawn of evil in fewer than nine
Attack Rounds, add 4 to your INFECTION score and
turn to 6_ If you do not, turn to 33.

STAMINA 8
ll

293-294

293
Creeping between the trees, guided by the eerie music,
you enter a wide clearing in the wood. Lying among
tall weeds and grasses are moss-covered tombstones,
some toppled and broken. There is a disturbing atmos-
phere about this place. The sound of the fiddle is
joined by that of a pipe, accompanied by a tattoo
beaten out on a drum. You feel drawn to the music
and, walking through the deserted graveyard, come
upon a chilling sight. Dancing round the opening of a
freshly dug grave are a group of skeletons; remnants
of clothes still hang from their bones. The one leading
the dance is playing the fiddle, while two others,
wearing what were once military uniforms, are the
piper and the drummer. The fiddler turns and starts to
lead the dancers towards you, bones rattling as the
skeletons skip and jump over the tombstones. You
recognize the tune the deathly musicians are playing:
it is a tune that has gone down in folklore as the
Dance of Death. The music increases in speed and you
fee] it drawing you towards the dancers, For a moment
your eyes fall on the tombstone and you see that it is
your own name that is carved into the stone. You
must stop the evil music before its hypnotic power
lures you into your grave, Rol] one die and add 8, If
the total is less than, or equal to, your FAITH, turn to
231; if it is greater than your FAITH, turn to 353.

294
You try to keep ahead of the wheel, but the effort is
too great, Your legs give way and the great drum
crushes the life out of your body,
295-297

295
You are facing a thin, horned Devil with cloven
hoofs and long, razor-like claws. However, the Hob
is not particularly powerful and will be affected by
your FAITH. Roll one die and add 3. If the total is less
than, or equal to, your FAITH, the Hob backs away
from you, letting you pass through the crowd (turn to
69). If the total is greater than your FAITH, you must

fight the thing.
HOB SKILL 7

If you win, turn to 69.

STAMINA ©

296

The blood in the bottle sfif/ feels warm! Unnerved, you
pour the thick red fluid over the priest’s bones. The
jaw of the skull drops open and a hideous, soul-rending
scream rises from the corpse. Blood is normally used
in necromantic, black magic rituals. The blood you
have just used is that of a priest, but an evil one who
served the Dark Lords of Chaos (lose 2 FAITH points).
With the deafening scream still ringing in your ears,
you rush out of the tomb, shocked by what you have
done, Turn to 112.

297

You have not travelled far from Tallow when a terrible
scream rends the air round you. It is a scream you
have heard before, that night of the storm when all
your troubles began. Looking up, silhouetted against
the dark stormclouds you see dozens of foul Demons
bearing down on you. Your progress has been watched

298-299

and the Cauldron of Midnight warned of your ap-
proach. You try to defend yourself, cutting down
several of Nazek’s creatures before you yourself fall,
under the sheer force of numbers, Your adventure
ends here.

298

Having dispatched your opponent, you are confronted
by a tall man on horseback wearing a long, black
cloak. You are startled to see that under his hood his
face is covered by an iron mask. A gauntlet-clad hand
pulls a fine sword from its scabbard. The sword glows
with a faint blue light as it cuts through the air
towards you,

MASKED BRIGAND STAMINA 12

SKILL If

After two Attack Rounds, turn to 94,

299
‘Witch! the man shouts, jumping to his feet and
knocking the table over. ‘I have sworn to purge the
land of evil scum such as you. Prepare to die, hell-
spawn!’ The Witch-hunter draws his sword and leaps
at you like a crazed animal.

WITCH-HUNTER SKILL 12 STAMINA 10

If you win, the other people in the bar-room of the
Brindled Cat start to arm themselves and advance
upon you, shouting curses (lose 1 FAITH point and 1
LUCK point). You run out of the inn and leave Fenford
as quickly as possible. Turn to 48

300-302

300
Once you are away from the town, you rest for a
while to consider your next course of action. (You
may eat Provisions here.) There are only a few hours
of daylight remaining; the sky is still overcast and
storm clouds are gathering far away to the west. Two
roads lead away from Hallow’s Well, The road south
is signposted to the village of Aryll and leads to a
range of low hills. The other takes a route westwards
to the edge of a brooding forest, You cannot delay
any longer. Will you go south towards Aryll (turn to
34.9) or west in your search for the Black Grimoire (tum

to 37)?

301
Faintly glowing lights dance over the marsh ahead of
you, The path splits here; will you go:

Left? Turn to 59
Right? Tum to 339
Straight ahead? Turn to 237

302
The merchant tries to get away in his wagon, but you
grab him before he can escape. Having told him what
you would like to do to him for all the trouble and
fear he has caused, the man breaks down in tears,
apologizing over and over again for his actions, You
can tel] that he means what he says and you agree to
let him go if he promises never to bother the people
of Driteham again. He accepts your ultimatum and

503-395

thanks you for your mercy (add 1 FartTH point for this
noble and just act). Before he leaves, he hands you a
bunch of herbs. It is Driggen, a herb from the south
famed for its ability to grow in even the driest condi-
tions. IF you have killed a warlock, you see that he is
wearing a Crescent Moon Amulet which you may
remove, Turn to 383

393
The portrait is of a bishop, who lived an exceptionally
holy life and blessed this picture himself (add 1 FAITH
point). Return to 80

304

You brandish Enthus’s amulet before the Beast. The
Demon snarls as yague memories of its imprisonment,
and the priest responsible for it, flood back into its
ages-old brain. The dragon's tail sweeps around, lash-
ing the amulet from your hand (lose 1 FAITH point).
Now the only defence you have against the Kurakil is
Deliverer. Turn to 250.

305
Dissatisfied with your answer, the High Priest instructs
the druids to take you to the sacrificial altar-stone.
There is nothing you can do as you are placed, spread-
eagled, on the altar and held there by the druids.
Raising his sacrificial knife above his head, the High
Priest declaims, “You must be returned to the Earth-
mother so that your blood can nourish the land.’ His
hand drops; your adventure is over.
;

306-307

306

Being careful to avoid the pit, you hurry out of the
barrow, discouraged at not finding the Protector’s
sword. There is no sign of the druids and, as time is
pressing, you decide not to return to Aryll but to set
off north-westwards through the hills, in the hope of
joining the road again, west of the village. Your mind
begins to wander as you stride over the rugged
terrain, so it is with some surprise that you round a
rocky outcrop and come face to face with a huge,
grotesque humanoid dressed in animal skins. Dropping
the deer carcass it was carrying across its shoulders,
the british Ogre steps towards you, swinging its
hefty club and grunting: ‘Ah, now that’s more what I
‘ad in mind for me supper! Yooman\!”

OGRE SKILL 8 STAMINA 10

If you win, turn to 273

307
Speaking slowly and clearly, you offer the creature
greetings and introduce yourself. ‘And I am Sam Bog-
gart, one of the Fen Folk,’ the creature replies in your
own tongue. ‘I apologize for failing to use your lan-
guage, but I have little need of it here. Have you come
to beg my assistance?’ Following Sam into the hut,
you ask him what he means, He explains that he is a
herbalist and one reason for living in Blackmire is that
all the ingredients necessary for his work grow within
its marshy reaches. ‘I must admit, most people have
forgotten that I am stil! here and so do not come
asking for my help very often.’ You have nothing to

||
308

lose in telling this kind marshman of your mission; as you
do so; he listens intently, watching you with his great
saucer tyes. When you are finished, Sam offers his help:
If you wish, and if you have any plants, herbs or fungi, |
could make you a potion that may aid you in your quest.

if you have any plants. herbs or fungi and want to accept
Sam's kind offer, turn to 380. If you lack these ingredients,
or if you do not want to entrust the success of your
adventure to herbal remedies, turn to 256.

308
The creature dies in an explosion of flame, before its
spirit returns to its supernatural home, the Elemental
Plane of Fire, but you manage to avoid being hit by
the resulting fireball. Karad has also destroyed his
opponent, so you hurry into the crypt, followed by
the Resistance. Turn to 150.

309-312

309
The ale costs you 1 Gald Piece and restores point of
lost STAMINA. The landlord is a friendly fellow, and you
are soon telling him about your adventures on the road
to Hailow's Well. ‘Oh, that'll be the Mask,’ the landlord
tells you. ‘‘Im an’ ‘is bandits ‘ave bin attackin’ pious folk
on their way ‘ere and robbin’ ‘em of all their valuables —
but sounds like you put the wind up ‘im!’ Having finished
your ale, you can retire for the night (turn to 179) or go
over and sit with the group of pilgrims (turn to 10),

310
The commotion caused by your fighting alerts the
other guards round the outpost. Soon you are over-
whelmed by sheer force of numbers. The outlaws deal
with you swiftly and mercilessly. Your adventure is
over.

311
The third militiaman has still not returned with rein-
forcements, so you make the most of the opportunity
and flee the town. Turn to 300.

342
in an instant you are surrounded by the band of
Outlaws. If you have their leader as a hostage, you
manage to dispatch two of your attackers using the
woman as a shield, before she frees herself from your
grasp. Roll one die. If you roll 1-2, you trip up one
rogue, sending him flying into his companion, leaving
the two stunned. If you roll 3-4 you knock out one
opponent with your sword hilt. Any outlaws you deal

313

with come from the top of the list below, You must
fight the remaining outlaws, two at a time.

SKILL STAMINA
VETERAN BRIGAND 8 6
SCARRED RUFFIAN 6 7
DWARF ROGUE 6 5
STAFF-WIELDING OUTLAW 8 V4
BLACKGUARD vi 5
OUTLAW LEADER vi 7

If you defeat the other outlaws and reduce the Outlaw
Leader's STAMINA to 3 points or less, tum to 223.

313
Outside the tavern again, you decide on your next
move. Will you:

Look round the stalls in the Market

Square? Turn to 29
Visit the healing well? Turn to 261
Leave the square by heading west? _ Turn to 98
Leave the square by heading south? Turn to 272

314-315

314
A search of the witch’s cottage turns up a Crescent

Moon Amulet, a bunch of the plant Wolfsbane —
known for its highly poisonous nature, and a bone
ring carved with runes. You take whatever you like,
before leaving Mistress Crowfoot’s cottage to report
your failure to the villagers of Selwick,

At first light, still somewhat disheartened, you set off
again. The road out of Selwick leads to a junction with
another from the south; here you take the tuming
westwards into the hills. Turn to 280.

315
That cartload of hay next to the stables should be ideal —
if only you can set fire to it! No one at the gate takes any
notice of you as you stroll towards the stables, dressed as
one of their own. Just as you reach the cart, a large,
bearded man steps out of the stables. Test your Luck. If
you are Lucky, turn to 7o. If you are Unlucky, tum to 154.

316-317

316
Before the Wodewitch can conjure up another enor-
mous insect to defend her, you leap at her, your sword
still coated with the cockroach’s blood. The Wodewitch
screeches at you and fries to rake your flesh with her
long fingernails

WODEWITCH SKILL 6 STAMINA 4

If you win, you can either search the Wodewitch’s
hovel (turn to 386) or return to Mussuck immediately
(turn to 242)

317
A Demonological Dissertation was written by one
Melkor Rankaar, an eminent demonologist of recent
years, In it are detailed many of the foul inhabitants ot
the Pit and memorable servants of theirs on this plane
The book also describes several Demonifuges — charms
or amulets designed to drive Demons away. Hidder
among the pages you find a mention of a Demonic
Word of Command. When this word is spoken in the
presence of certain Demons, they are compelled to do
the speaker's bidding. Turn to 68

318-319

318

Coxcomb adopts a ridiculous, theatrical pose and starts
to sing a humorous song about a miser who lost his
fortune to a crafty fox and a wily stoat, thanks to a
pear! and three cups. When he has finished, the clown
dances away from your table, followed by his band of
admirers, leaving you to retire to your room The
night passes without incident and you wake up, fully
refreshed (restore up to 2 STAMINA points). You leave
the inn and are immediately caught up in the early-
morming throng of people already making their way
up the narrow street to the Market Square. Turn to
131

319

Shouting a battle-cry, you leap into the throng of the
assembled coven. All round you members of the Resist-
ance are engaging witches — and worse things — in
combat. You tum on your nearest foe, Roll one die. If
you roll 1-3, turn to 295; 4-5, turn to 384; 6, turn to
69
Se)

320-321

320
You are standing at one end of a pillared crypt
Patches of phosphorescent algae grow on the walls
and ceiling, giving off a dim light — but it is the smell
that strikes you most forcibly, The stench of disease
and putrefaction is sickening and you gag at the smell.
While you are in the crypt you must reduce your
SKILL by 2 points because of the vile stench. At the
other end of the crypt is a large sarcophagus and
rising out of it is a disgusting mass of pseudopods and
seething, rotting flesh. This living embodiment of
decay and corruption was once human, a servant of
the Dark Gods; over the centuries it has become the
Canker, the festering source of the plague that has
been threatening Aryll. Between you and the sar-
cophagus, however, there are at least a dozen Plague
Zombies, resurrected from the dead victims of the
plague. Roll one die: this is the number of Zombies
you must get past in order to reach the sarcophagus
For each Zombie faced, rol! one die and add 4. If the result
is less than or equal to your FAITH, the undead creature is
repelled by your aura of Goodness and you can go on to
face the next one. If the result is greater than your FAITH,
you must fight the Zombie, Each Plague Zombie has
SKILL 6 and STAMINA 6. For each Zombie you have to
fight, add 2 to your INFECTION, regardless of the
outcome. If you survive all your opponents, turn to 395.

321
If you have the Beggar's Curse, turn to 138. If you
haven’t but you do have a Rat Bite, turn to go. If you
have neither of these afflictions, turn to 279.
522

522
Having banished the Demon, you are taken by the
monks to the infirmary where Brother Hugo does his
best to heal your wounds (restore up to 6 STAMINA
points). When you have had a little time to recover.
the monks take you to see their abbot. In his private
chambers you meet Abbot Dunstan and the stern-
faced Prior Alwyn. ‘We all thank you for destroying
that abomination, says the Abbot, ‘but J am afraid that
it will prove to have been just the beginning of our
problems. The man who murdered Brother Hierony-
mous also stole a book, a very precious and very
dangerous book. It is the Black Grimoire, a book of
dark magic,’ he says. ‘Its pages contain the darkest and
most evil spells known to witchcraft; as the book is
virtually indestructible, it was kept here at the abbey
on holy ground, so that it could never again be used
to cause ill. And now it has been stolen’

‘The thief knew exactly where to find the book, so he
must have been here before,’ you point out, ‘Do you
have any idea who he was?’

‘We do, replies Prior Alwyn, ‘although it took us
some time to remember. It is many years since we
have seen him. His name is Nazek. He was a foundling
at the abbey here long ago and so remained under our
guardianship. However, he was always causing trouble
and was more interested in studying the dark ways
than the path of Goodness. Despite our best efforts to
correct his behaviour, by the age of twelve Nazek was
experimenting with dark magic. It was not long after
this that he disappeared on a night such as this. We

322

were not sorry to see him go. Everyone assumed that
he had perished in the storm.’

‘But tonight he came back, thanks to you,’ Abbot
Dunstan says, concerned. You look at him in puzzle-
ment. ‘Evil such as Nazek’s cannot enter holy ground
without invitation, and you invited him.’ You remem-
ber the incident. The Abbot is right. You must help us
recover the book, and we know where you should
look for the thief, says the Abbot. ‘For in the Grimoire
there is one spell more powerful and life-threatening
than all the rest. This spell is one of unlocking. What it
unlocks is the Demafrauge.’ You have heard of this.
Seeing your recognition, the Abbot continues. ‘Yes,
the legendary Casket of Shadows, the prison of the
Infernal Beast. Last time this monster walked on Titan,
hundreds died. Centuries ago, the Casket was locked
away in the monastery at Claybury, a village lying in
the hills to the west. This was thought to be a safe
place, but it may not be any more, as we thought the
book was out of harm’s way until tonight.’

‘We believe,’ Prior Alwyn says, ‘that Nazek must
intend to use the Grimoire to open the Demafrauge.
However, this ritual can only take place on the night
of Shekka’s Moon ~ in four nights’ time. The Grimoire
must be going westwards to find the Casket, so that is
the way you must go too.’

‘You will help us?’ the Abbot asks pleadingly. Of
course you will! You are responsible for the theft of
the Grimoire so you must recover it. Besides, you have
a score to settle with Nazek. Turn to 238
325-324

323
You cannot resist the power of the Dread Demon.
One of the fiend’s taloned hands passes right through
your jerkin into your chest, and you feel an agonizing
pain as it crushes your heart

324

You show the man your token of Goodness and he
immediately apologizes for his abruptness, You waste
no more time and tell him briefly that you are on a
quest, ‘I am Karad,’ he says. Ten years ago, I swore an
oath that 1 would hunt out all those who practise
witchcraft and rid the world of them, for my own dear
sister died as the result of an old hag’s curse. I came to
Fenford after hearing that a coven was forming in the
hills to the west. I have since discovered that the
coven, the Cauldron of Midnight, led by the Warlock
Nazek, are centring their activities round the village of
Claybury. I have started to assemble a band of resist-
ance fighters to stop these foul spell-casters.’ You and
the Witch-hunter decide to combine your efforts
against Nazek and the coven, and you tell him ail
about your quest to recover the Black Grimoire.
‘Shekka’s Moon is just one day away, so we must ac
fast, 1 shall not be able to travel with you to Clayburs

Karad adds, ‘as 1 have to reconnoitre with the Resis:-
ance. J shall meet you in Claybury tomorrow, at the
sign of the tower. The password is “The four phases
of the moon”.’ He hands you a metal plate with 2
small manacle attached to each corner. ‘Take these
Shackles; if you should meet any witches, try to secure
their toes and thumbs with them to prevent any speils

3525-327

being cast. Time is short, we must leave immediately,’
You leave the Brindled Cat and, while Karad leaves
the village and goes northwards, you press on to the
west. Turn to 48.

325
At dusk a guard arrives, carrying a tray of bread and
water. He opens a small flap in the bottom of the door
and slides the tray through, before leaving you for the
night. Tomorrow you will be brought before the
Reeve of the town and your future will be decided
Even if you manage to escape, by then it will be too
late to find the Black Grimoire before the night of
Shekka’s Moon. You have failed in your mission

326

As you, Karad and the Resistance lie in wait, hidden
among the ring of stones in a dip in the hills, the crescent
moon rises in the midst of writhing stormclouds, blood-
ted in colour — Shekka’s Moon. Half an hour passes, and
still no sign of the coven. Then there is a tremendous
crash and the sky is torn apart by a bolt of lightning that
streaks out of the clouds, hitting the ground away to the
south-west, A roar echoes across the hills and a dark
cloud, blacker than the night sky, rises into the air over
Claybury. Soon the whole village is ablaze. The Casket
of Shadows has been opened and the Infernal Beast
released. You have failed in your mission.

327
You shout the Demonic Word of Command then say,
‘Begone, Demon!’ The Inquisitor puts his hands to his
328-329

head as if he is wrestling with something in his mind.
He suddenly lets out a terrible scream and falls to the
ground, unconscious. As you watch, a trail of mist
rises from his mouth and forms into the shape of a
nightmarish creature, before it is carried away on the
breeze, You have released the man from possession by
a Demon. However, the Demonic Word of Command
was not a holy incantation but black magic (lose z
FAITH point). Turn to 193,

528
You decide to try to fend off the bear with one of
the flaming torches hanging on the walls. But first you
must get hold of one of them. Test your Skill. If you
succeed, tum to 230. If you fail, turn to 39.

329

The barn is old and the wooden floor of the hayloft és
rotten with age As you dash across it, the boards give
way under your weight and you fall into the mass
writhing bodies and are nipped and bitten repeatedi+
by the rats. With a blazing roar, the roof of the barn
collapses and you plunge into the raging inferno, Yow
adventure ends here.

330-352

339

The gourd breaks open on the Devilworm’s head,
spilling its contents over the creature. To your horror,
the monster, already four metres long, begins to grow
at a terrifying rate Soon it measures ten metres from
head to tail. You hack at it with your sword, but
whenever you manage to slice night through the
worm’s body the separated segments simply join back
together. Striking blow after blow, you do your best
to defend yourself until the monster traps you in its
coils and begins to feast.

331

With shaking hands you take the potion from your
pack and gulp it down, The antidote takes immediate
effect and the spiders drop from you, repelled by the
Venom’s Bane. As Nazek begins another incantation
you rush at him, knocking the book from his hands,
The Warlock pulls a long, sacrificial knife from under his
robes and prepares to finish you off At last you have
a chance to exact your revenge on the evil Warlock.

NAZEK SKILL 10 STAMINA 9

If you reduce Nazek’s sTAMINA to 2 points ot less,
turn at once to 258

332

Of all the drinking establishments that surround the
square, two really draw your attention. One has a
brass coin painted on the sign and the other depicts a
bear chained to a post. Will you visit the Brass
Farthing (turn to 266), or the Baited Bear (turn to 362)?
333-335

333
Trying to keep the hills to the west in sight, you tread

warily along the winding paths into the gloomy depths
of Blackmire. The marshes lie under a murky haze
through which a dim half-light filters. Watching ou:
for hazardous bogs, you come upon a trail that leads
from the direction of Fenford into the swamp. This
path is soaked with blood and looks as if something
has been dragged, dying, into the fens. Do you wan:
to follow this gruesome trail (tum to 375) or woulc
you rather stay on your present path (turn to 274)?

534
The acolytes hold you down on the ground while

their leader opens a wooden box and tips the content=
— live scorpions — all over you! Will you jump up anc
try to shake them off (turn to 391) or lie perfectly stil
(turn to 201)?

335
Hurriedly you gulp down the contents of the flask anc

are overcome with relief when a golden warmth begir=
to flow through your whole body. The holy panacez
has destroyed the plague within you. Reduce you

536

INFECTION score to zero and restore up to 6 points of
STAMINA, but ignore any other instructions given as
to the use of the Heal-all (cross the Heal-all off your
Adventure Sheet), Safe once more, you take a little time
to recover before continuing westwards on the road
out of Aryll. Turn to 367,

336

The only way into the tower is through a door, at the
top of a flight of steps, that has been built into the
round wall. The door is unlocked, so you open it and
step into the tower. The building is completely hollow
and a staircase leads upwards round the inside of the
tower to the floor above, The atmosphere in the tower
feels oppressive and you can sense the presence of
evil. Suddenly the door slams shut behind you. There
is a splintering crash and a huge block of masonry
smashes through the floor above into the room where
you stand, showering you with dust and rubble. The
whole tower starts to shake and the walls collapse
inwards, The ground opens up, swallowing Nazek’s
recently abandoned stronghold and burying you with
it,

337-339

337
The dogs are put into the pit and immediately leap on

the bear, which does its best to defend itself with its
huge front paws. However, someone has been careless:
the post is old and rotten and can no longer take the
strain of the bear pulling against it. To everyone's
surprise and horror, with a terrible splintering sound
the enraged bear pulls its chain free of the stake. With
two blows from its great paws the mastiffs lie dead in
the pit. Screaming in panic, the crowd runs for the
door. Will you stand your ground and try to stop the
bear (turn to 164) or flee (turn to 55)?

338

You hold your breath for as long as you can, but at
long last you are forced to release your hold on the
weed and you float up to the surface of the pond. You
gulp in the fresh air — but unfortunately the three
minutes is not up. Rocks, pitchforks and other farm
implements are showered upon you, until your lifeless
body floats, face down, in the pond. Your adventure is
over

339
Growing among the reeds at a point where your path

crosses another is a single Malague — a toadstool used
to help sweat out fevers. You may pick it before going
on, At the junction, will you go:

Left? Turn to 237
Right? Turn to 174
Straight on? Tum to 396
349-341

340
You ask the boy if you could have a word with the
puppeteer. He leads you around behind the booth,
where a bespectacled old man is adjusting the costume
on the wooden figure of the Wise Fool. ‘Grandfather,
there’s someone to see you,’ says the boy. The old
man looks up and nods a greeting. You tell him how
much you enjoyed the performance and how you
admired his puppets.

‘If you're interested,’ says the puppeteer, ‘you could
buy this one if you like.’ If you are willing, you may
buy the puppet of the Wise Fool for z0 Gold Pieces.
Whatever you decide, the old man shows you how he
operates his puppets and, when he has finished, you
thank him for his demonstration and bid him farewell
Turn to 157,

344
Passing the reins of your mount to one of the servants
you bid Lady Attana and her group farewell, She hands
you a purse, containing your fee of 10 Gold Pieces
You watch as her party is swallowed up in the crowded
back-street down which they ride. Turn to 254.

342-345

342
Are you wielding the Blessed Blade, Deliverer? If you
are, turn to 392. Otherwise, turn to 278

343
Passing back through the alcove, you reach the arch-

way just as the crumpled body of the undead guardian
rises to its feet. You must engage the warrior in
combat once again

BARROW GUARD SKILL 8 STAMINA 7

If the warrior wins an Attack Round against you, roll
one die. If you roll a 6, the battle-axe strikes you,
causing 3 STAMINA points of damage rather than the
usual 2, If you defeat the Barrow Guard for a second
time, tum to 306

344
You ask the beggar if he will help you. ‘If my ‘elp
wasn't good enough for yer last time, I don’t see why
it should be now,’ Cynric complains moodily. You
plead with him, blurting out one apology after another.
Test your Luck. If you are Lucky, tum to 152. If you are
Unlucky, turn to 325.

345
The Inquisitor lets out a terrible scream and falls to the

ground, unconscious. As you watch, a trail of mist
rises from his mouth into the air and forms the shape
of a nightmarish creature. The apparition is there only
for a moment before the mist is carried away on the
breeze. Turn to 193.
346-349

346
The flask hits the edge of the sarcophagus and shatters,
spilling its contents over the diseased Canker. Immedi-
ately, the Heal-all starts to eat away the putrefying
flesh as if it were acid. Soon all that is left of the vile
undead horror is a pool of black slime. Turn to 6.

347
As you leave the altar a feeling of well-being floods

through your body (add 1 to your FAITH score). You
stride across the bridge with renewed confidence and
through the eastern Pilgrim’s Gate. Turn to 254.

348

You sit down opposite the man and greet him with
the usual pleasantries. ‘Look, don’t waste my time,’ he
interrupts rudely, ‘tell me what it is you want, or leave
me in peace.’ Surprised by his bluntness, you ask the
man what he knows concerning the Black Grimoire. ‘It
is the most evil and unholy book in the kingdom, and
now the Cauldron of Midnight has it! Whal’s it te
you?’ he hisses. You tell the man that you are looking
for it. ‘Why, are you a witch?’ he replies. Then he
grabs your left hand and turns it over so that he car
see the palm, at the same time checking to see whether
you are wearing any amulets. If you have the Witch's
Mark or a Crescent Moon Amulet, tum to 299. If you
do not, turn to 276.

349
Your journey south is uneventful and, having crossed

the Grimiry River, you reach the edge of the hills

|

350-351

Dusk falls and you are still a long way from the
village of Aryll. After the day’s events you are in need
of a good night's rest, so you decide to find a suitable
place to make camp. Do you want to spend the night
just off the road (turn to 387) or look for a place
further into the hills (turn to 203)?

350
Heeding the Witch-hunter’s advice, you chain the old
woman's thumbs and toes together in order to stop
her casting any spells. Before you can do anything
else, you are assailed by the witch’s familiars. You
must fight them all at the same time,

SKILL STAMINA
BLACK CAT 5 4
TOAD 2 2
GRIMALKIN 5 3
BAT 3 2

If the Grimalkin hits you more than twice, you must
lose 1 SKILL point. IF you win, turn to 190,

351
Your victory will bring peace to many of the villages
in the area and make the roads at least a little safer for
travellers and pilgrims. You take a moment to look
more closely at the Mask’s incredible sword. The
weapon has been finely crafted and the blade is en-
graved with strange runes. You pick up the sword and
once more it starts to glow with a faint blue light.
Reading the nmes, you see that they spell out a name:
Deliverer! The magical weapon you now hold in your
351

hands is the legendary Blessed Blade of the warrior-
priest, Gwythain the Protector. Add 2 FAITH points
and restore 1 LUCK point for your find You may also
add 1 SKILL point to your current and Initial sKIL1
scores while you are using Deliverer Curiosity finally
gets the better of you and you lift the iron mask from
the dead man’s face What you see beneath makes you
recoil in revulsion, The Mask’s face is terribly disfig-
ured by scars and burns, and its left side is skull-like ir
appearance. Not wishing to stay in the outlaws’ camp
any longer, you prepare to leave, but not before
pocketing some of the Mask’s booty for your trouble
Roll one die and add 6. This is the number of Gola
Pieces you are able to pick up. Lying among the
treasure on the table is an ornately carved, dark
wooden box with a silver lock If you have a silver

key on a chain, turn to the number engraved on it. !:

you do not have the key, no matter how hard you tr,
the box seems to be protected in some way anc
cannot be forced open (turn to 373)

552-354

352
The water from the spring has a high content of
minerals suspended in it. Although you have not been
particularly blessed, when you drink the water (which
you may do at any time except during combat) you
may restore up to 5 points of STAMINA. You leave the
temple and go back down the hill to the Market
Square, Turn to 131

353
You cannot resist the pull of the evil music, Joining

the skeletons’ dance, you forget all about your quest.

354
As you run across the cavern, the flies are angrily

trying to sting you and pass on the dreadful disease
they are carrying. Fight the flies as if they were one
creature. Every time you lose an Attack Round, you
do not lose any sTAMINA points; instead, you must
add 2 to your INFECTION.

CARRIER FLIES SKILL 7 STAMINA 11

Once you have fought three Attack Rounds, you
reach the door and escape the flies by running through
it and slamming it shut behind you. Turn to 320.
355-356

355
You can hear the sound of several pairs of hob-nailed

boots chasing you up the side-street which runs along
the edge of the town wall. The militiamen are not in
sight yet, but you do not think you could take on all
of them, Exhausted, you stop and look around desper-
ately. Ahead of you, some barrels are standing outside
a boarded-up building. Will you hide in one of the
barrels (turn to 240), or will you use them to climb
over the town wall (turn to 161)?

356
The infernal beast was not the only prisoner of the
Casket of Shadows. While you are doing battle against
the Kurakil, all manner of creatures, thought to exist
only in nightmares, creep, crawl and slither out of the
chest through the portal between the planes. The
monsters swarm across the crypt, overpowering the
Resistance by sheer force of numbers. Eventually you
too fall under their onslaught.

357-360

357
You narrate a tale of heroic knights and a quest for

honour and kingly treasures, You have your audience
enthralled and, when you finish, you are given a great
round of applause. Everyone agrees that your story
was the best and the prize-money is handed to you
(add the 6 Gold Pieces to your Adventure Sheet). In a
jovial mood you retire to your room (turn to 179).

358
‘Hang on, you're not Gex!' shouts the brigand ‘What
‘ave you done with ‘im?’ In a moment the outlaws are
upon you. Outnumbered, you don't have a chance.
You are dealt with swiftly and mercilessly. Your adven-
ture is over.

359
You have not gone far from the village when you

begin to sweat heavily. Your skin becomes irritated
and, as you scratch it, red blotches erupt all over your
body. The virulent plague is killing you, If you have a
Heal-all, turn to 335. JF you do not, turn to 53

360

You light the candles and begin to pray. If you have
some of the herb Scarlet Lady, you can burn it as
incense to aid your praying. Roll one die and add 8
(subtract z from this total if you are buming Scarlet
Lady). If the total is less than, or equal to, your FAITH,
tum to 137. If the total is greater than your FAITH,
turn to 268.
361-362

3561
The four-metre-long monstrosity slides towards you
its head swaying menacingly from side to side.

DEVILWORM

As soon as you win an Attack Round, turn to 119

SKILL 10 STAMINA 1c

362
The crowded bar-room of the Baited Bear lies under a
smoky haze rising from the pipes of the tavern’s
customers, while serving wenches walk between the
tables with trays of drinks. By the looks of some o:
the clientele, you can well imagine that many devious
plots are hatched here. Being careful to steer well
clear of any weaselly-looking characters, you make
your way to the bar. A tankard of ale costs 1 Gold
Piece and restores i paint of stAMINA. The atmos-
phere in the tavern, apart from being smoky, is tense
with expectation — and you soon discover why. The
landlord rings a bell and almost everyone in the baz

gets up and hurries through a door at the far end o:

the room. You feel compelled to follow and elbox,
your way to the front of the crowd to see what al!
the commotion is about, The back room is lit by
torches on the walls and in its centre a pit has beer
dug out Chained to a post in the pit is a large
muzzled bear. On the edge of the ring stand hwo
men; they are holding back two ‘mastiffs wearing
vicious, spiked collars. Many of the spectators are
placing bets on the outcome of the imminent fight. If
you want to place a bet, turn to 211; if you do not
turn to 337.

363-364

363
You leap at the woman, but at the last moment she
lashes out at you, striking you on the jaw (lose 2
STAMINA points}, Tur to 312

504

You speak the Demonic Word of Command once
more (lose z FAITH point) and order the infernal beast
to ‘Begone!’ The creature stops in its approach as if it
has hit an invisible barrier. It snarls, clawing the air,
then begins to move forward again. The Demonic
Word of Command is powerful magic but not strong
enough to banish the Kurakil. At least it has slowed
the Demon long enough for you to draw your
sword. Turn to 250.

365-366

365
A gaudily painted sign over the next stall reads
‘Hemlock & Hogweed — Apothecaries’. The stall itself
is crammed with bunches of herbs, jars and bottles,
and a set of brass weighing scales Two men are
standing behind their wares with sickly smiles on their
faces. The first is piggy-looking with beady little eyes.
His companion is tall and thin and with a deathly
appearance. ‘Hogweed, my dear chap, I do believe we
have a customer,’ says the tall man, who you assume
is Hemlock. If you want to see what Hemlock and
Hogweed have to offer, turn to 160; otherwise, turn to

399.

366
You are led by Prior Alwyn through the abbey build-
ings and out to the monks’ herb garden. Already
busily tending the plants under his care is a thickset,
bearded monk. ‘This is Brother Trefor,’ says the Prior.
Tm sure he will help you select anything you consider
necessary for your journey.’ Brother Trefor is a jolly
man and soon puts you at your ease. Between you
both, you come up with three plants that it might be
wise to take with you: Garlic, a guaranteed protection
against Vampires; Aramance, a pungent, sweet-smell-

= = ss —— — ! meni ing herb used to guard against disease; and Glebe

ETT il mA WCW Y ANA . Balm, the leaves of the plant being used in many

aivit]| MH Wh A i Hasta nd TS WE ae healing preparations. Unfortunately, Brother Trefor can

' Nal HIN qn Wy yrs { Vet AUN spare only one of these plants as the herb garden was
1 yy I | badly damaged in th lastnight and

Je) ' As ‘i adly damaged in the storm last night and many

a i
il i) A eae valuable plants were destroyed, making those that
MN oi Of qs on) 4% remain all the more precious. (Make a note of which

367-368

one you take on your Adventure Sheet.) You decide
that the urgency of your mission means you cannot
delay here any longer, so you prepare to leave the
abbey, Turn to 277.

367
You follow the road going west in the shadow of the
grim-looking hills. It must be almost midday when
you come to a fork in the road, although you canno:
see the sun at its zenith behind the forbidding clouds
You can either carry‘on westwards (turn to 145) o7
take the new branch north-west (turn to 114)

368
You hold your breath until your lungs feel as if they
will burst, then you surface, gasping for air. Fortunately.
the three minutes is up and many of the villagers
actually thought you had drowned. ‘The third Ordeal,’
commands the Inquisitor. You are dragged from the
pond and led back to the Market Square. The Inquisitor
is standing beside a burning brazier, holding an iron
horseshoe in one hand. ‘This fire has been blessed and
so shall not harm the pure-hearted,’ he says and, to
prove the point, plunges the horseshoe and his hand
into the flames, The crowd gasp, first in horror then in
amazement, as the Inquisitor withdraws his hand from:
the brazier, unmarked. ‘If the accused is not a witch
then they shall be able to retrieve the horseshoe’ You
are surrounded, You have no choice but to put your
hand into the fire. If you have drunk the Salamander
potion, turn to the paragraph with the same number as
the recipe for that potion. If you have not, turn to 260

369-372

369
The thief manages to extract two portions of your
Provisions from your backpack (cross them from your
Adventure Sheet}, None the wiser, you leave the Baited
Bear; turn to 313

my

370
Dashing through the forest, you run straight into one
of the outlaws’ traps. You are jerked off your feet and
hoisted several metres off the ground inside a huge
net. The outlaws soon catch up with you and quickly
dispatch you before helping themselves to your belong-
ings

371
The door opens just far enough for a crossbow bolt to
be fired through the crack with deadly accuracy. Your

adventure is over

372
You toss a coin to the beggar and he manages a

373-374

toothless smile. ‘Thanks, stranger. May Alishanka look
more kindly on you than she did on me.’ The old
man’s words fill you with a sense of well-being (regain
1 LUCK point and add z point to your FAITH score)
You attach yourself to the line of pilgrims making
their way into the temple and follow them inside
Turn to 471.

373
You decide it would be too dangerous to make your

way back through the keep, since the outlaws will
doubtless have been alerted to your presence, so you
look for an alternative exit. The only one you can find
is the window, There are no trees growing within
jumping distance so, carefully trying to assess how far
above the ground you are, you drop from the window
Test your Skill. lf you succeed, you land fairly safely
suffering only minor bruising (lose 2 STAMINA points:
If you fail, unable to control your fal! you hit the
ground painfully, hurting your shoulder and your back
(lose 4 STAMINA points and 1 SKILL point), If you are
still alive, you follow the outlaw’s directions again
this time away from the camp. Back on the road, ane
having discarded your disguise, after two hours you
reach the village of Fenford, Turn to 100,

574
As you deal the killing-blow to the [ast guard, you

find yourself surrounded by the whole of the towr
militia. There is nothing you can do to stop them.
dragging you off to a nearby blockhouse. Tum te

25.

375-377

375
The bloodied trail crosses other tracks and rivulets

running through the marsh until it reaches a clearing
littered with the bones of animals, large and small. On
the edge of the clearing is the carcass of an ox and,
from what you can tell, it has been killed only recently.
There is a ripple in the water beside the clearing, but it
must be a fish or a swamp snake, you tell yourself
Suddenly something rears up out of the water at your
feet, Test your Luck. If you are Lucky, tun to 11. If you
are Unlucky, turn to 288.

376

Unfolding the page from the Black Grimoire, you begin
to read. As your lips form the words that will lock the
chest, you see Nazek, still a short distance from you,
mouthing something. Your concentration starts to
waver and you almost lose your place in the spell. The
Warlock is using a Charm of Confusion against you.
Test your Skill, If you succeed, turn to 109, If you fail,
turn to 2.

377
You drag the piper’s pet off you and crush it underfoot.

The man hisses with anger and, dropping the charmed
pipes, pulls out a dagger from a sheath on his belt, As
he runs at you, you can see the fury in his eyes,
glaring from under the hood, and his rat-like features!

You draw your sword to defend yourself.
PIPER SKILL 8 STAMINA 7

If you win, turn to 120.

a

378-380

378

The brigands seem satisfied that you are in fact Gex,
and without further challenges you enter the keep.
Entering a room, you are confronted by a guard and
his companion, a wolfhound. At such close quarters,
the guard sees you are not really one of the outlaws
and orders the animal to attack you. If you kill the
dog, you must then face the guard.

SKILL STAMINA
WOLFHOUND 7 6
GUARD 8 8

If after ten Attack Rounds you have won, you continue
your search through the keep (tum to 125). If after ten
Attack Rounds you are still fighting, turn to 310.

379
Thwack! A low branch springs back into position,

hitting you across the face. You are flung from your
horse, dazed (lose 2 STAMINA points). There is now no
sign of the brigands, so you remount and your horse
trots back to the road. Turn to 191.

380
Sam opens a battered old book and thumbs through
its dog-eared pages, finding several concoctions that
may be of use to you. Of course, if you do not have
the correct ingredients for a potion, Sam cannot make
it for you. He also explains that, if mistletoe is to be
used in a mixture, it must have been cut with a Golden
Sickle for it to keep its magical properties. There is
only time for Sam to make up a maximum of two

380

potions before you will have to be on your way. The
mixtures you may choose from are listed below, with
their ingredients and page numbers in Sam's book, but
each ingredient can be used only once.

Boggart’s Brew — if taken after a battle, it will restore
half the stTAMINA points lost in the fight. Page 74.
Ingredients: Madder, Glebe Balm, Mudcap

Salamander — this concoction protects the user from
fire, just as the salamander is unaffected by burning.
Page 116, Ingredients: Skullsgrig, Drake Nettle, Phoenix
Grass.

Chillwarm — anyone taking this potion will be able to
resist cold, Page 167 Ingredients: Frostflower, Toad-
wort, Driggen.

Aylmer's Elixir — this powerful preparation helps the
user commune with his or her gods by inducing a
trance-like state for a few moments. The effect is to
increase their FAITH by 2 points. Page 239. Ingredients:
Mistletoe, Spriteweed, Scrallus,

Venom's Bane — this is an antidote to the poison of the
venomous bites of creatures such as snakes and spiders
Page 331. Ingredients: Malague, Death’s Shroud, Mistle-
toe.

Clearsee — this potion allows the user to see through
any magically created illusions. Page 385. Ingredients:
Phoenix Grass, Eyebright, Spriteweed.

Make a note of the potions you have chosen on your
Adventure Sheet, with their page numbers from Sam’s
book, then turn to 236.
381-383

381

Sword in hand, you kick open the door. You enter a
small room but, instead of finding the Mask, you have
found his second-in-command. The Master Brigand
picks up two curved swords from a table and whirls
them dextrously round his head, one in each hand
Because this opponent uses two swords, he has two
attacks each Attack Round to your one, as if you were
fighting two opponents.

MASTER BRIGAND SKILL 10

If you win, back in the corridor you try the other
door. Turn to 245.

STAMINA 9

582
The bar is drawn back and you are allowed out of the
bear-pit. The tavern’s customers cheer as you walk
across the bar-room. Any stake-money you put down
is lost, since the fight was forfeited by your interven-
tion. Some people crowd round you to pat you on the
back. Test your Luck. If you are Lucky, turn to 313. If
you are Unlucky, turn to 214.

383

Banging on the door of the woman's house, you
announce that the Lurcher has gone, and you are
welcomed inside. The next morning, after a refreshing
sleep (restore 2 STAMINA points), you follow the road
going west out of Driteham into the forest, Several
hours pass without incident until you reach a junction
Will you continue west to Mussuck (turn to 3) or head
south-west for Fenford (turn to 100)?

384

384
The coven is made up of witches from the whole
kingdom and you are opposed by an enchantress from
the ghost-haunted isle of Horm

ENCHANTRESS SKILL 8

If the enchantress wins an Attack Round, roll one die
On a roll of 5~6, she manages to catch your glance
and spellbinds you, automatically winning the next
Attack Round. If you win, turn to 69.

STAMINA 7

385-387

385

The man and his steed begin to transform before your
very eyes. Their skin contracts, becoming taut over
their bones, then pales to a deathly grey. Gone are the
man’s fine clothes, to be replaced by tattered rags, and
in his eyes is a look of pure hatred. ‘Fool!’ he rasps.
‘You shall pay for your impudence with your soul!’ Do
you have Gwythain’s sword, Deliverer? If you have,
turn to 141; if you haven't, turn to 54.

386
As soon as she is dead, the Wodewitch dissolves into
a puddle of green slime. In her robes you find not one
but two gourds and both still contain some liquid.
One has the letter ‘G’ scratched on it, the other the
letter ‘S’. You may take either or both of these. You
notice that the mushrooms the Wodewitch had been
collecting are Mudcaps, used in the brewing of strength
potions. You may take some if you wish. Still wonder-
ing whether the mad old hag was responsible for the
Devilworm, you make your way back to Mussuck in
order to find out. Tum to 242.

387

Having made camp, it is not Jong before you are
asleep .., What was that noise? Quickly you rouse
yourself and stand ready, sword in hand. Then you
hear the growling again. A shadowy shape suddenly
springs at you out of the night, The long fangs, thick
brown hair and bestial features betray that you are
now fighting for your life against a ravening Were-
wolf.

388

WEREWOLF SKILL 8 STAMINA 9

If you win, but suffer any wounds in this battle, turn
to 142. If you win without suffering any wounds, with
the dawn you are on your way again (turn to 57).

388
Remembering the words of Tira, Mistress Crowfoot’s
apprentice, you assume that one of these creatures
could be the transformed witch, If so, then sprinkling
the powder on her will make her resume her human
form — that is, if Tira was telling the truth. Which
familiar will you sprinkle the powder on? Will it be:

The black cat? Tum to 40
The warty toad? Turn to 156
The impish Grimalkin? Turn to 84
The tailless rat? Turn to 63
The raven? Turn to 185
The bat? Turn to 239

389-390

389
There is nothing else of interest to you in the Market
Square, so you decide to leave. Will you now set off
to the west (turn to 98) or the south (turn to 272)?

390
The hags suddenly dive out of the sky straight at you
You must defend yourself while continuing to hang on
to the stone with one hand. Because of your awkward
fighting position, you must reduce your Attack
Strength by 3 points for the duration of this battle.
Fight them one at a time.

SKILL STAMINA
First BEDLAM HAG 4 4
Second BEDLAM HAG 5 3
Third BEDLAM HAG 4 5

If you lose an Attack Round, roll one die. If you roll
5-6, turn to 93. If you defeat all three hags, their
bodies seem to dissolve into the air (regain 1 LUCK
point for your victory). The rest of the night passes
peacefully, and at first light you are on your way
again (turn to 280).
388

WEREWOLF SKILL 8 STAMINA 9

If you win, but suffer any wounds in this batHe, tum
to 142. If you win without suffering any wounds, with
the dawn you are on your way again (turn to 57)

388
Remembering the words of Tira, Mistress Crowfoot’s
apprentice, you assume that one of these creatures
could be the transformed witch. If so, then sprinkling
the powder on her will make her resume her human
form — that is, if Tira was telling the truth. Which
familiar will you sprinkle the powder on? Will it be:

The black cat? Turn to 40
The warty toad? Turn to 156
The impish Grimalkin? Tum to 84
The tailless rat? Turn to 63
The raven? Turn to 185
The bat? Turn to 239

389-390

389
There is nothing else of interest to you in the Market
Square, so you decide to leave. Will you now set off
to the west (turn to g8) or the south (turn to 272)?

390

The hags suddenly dive out of the sky straight at you
You must defend yourself while continuing to hang on
to the stone with one hand. Because of your awkward
fighting position, you must reduce your Attack
Strength by 3 points for the duration of this battle.
Fight them one at a time.

SKILL STAMINA
First BEDLAM HAG 4 4
Second BEDLAM HAG 5 3
Third BEDLAM HAG 4 5

If you lose an Attack Round, roll one die. If you roll
5-6, turn to g3. If you defeat all three hags, their
bodies seem to dissolve into the air (regain 1 LUCK
point for your victory). The rest of the night passes
peacefully, and at first light you are on your way
again (turn to 280).

391-393

391

The slightest movement and one of the scorpions
stings you. Racked with pain, you find it impossible to
remain motionless; as you flail about, trying to crush
the creatures, they all sting you in order to protect
themselves, Roll one die and add 2. Deduct this
number of points from your sTAMINA. If you are still
alive but your STAMINA score is now less than 4
points, turn to 32. Otherwise, turn to 42.

. 392
The holy weapon cuts deep into the Wraith which lets

out a chilling scream, At the sare moment it releases
its grip on your arm and, losing your balance, you
topple backwards off the horse. Plummeting earth-
wards, you can do nothing to prevent fate taking its
course. Test your Luck. If you are Lucky, turn to 36. If
you are Unlucky, tum to 229.

393
The night passes peacefully and you wake up, refreshed

(restore up to 2 STAMINA points). Leaving the inn, you
proceed on your way. Turn to 131.

3594-396

394
The creature expires in a ball of flame, before its spirit

returns to the Elemental Plane of Fire, its supernatural
home. This fireball hits you, scorching your clothes
and leaving you badly burned (lose 4 sTAMINA points).
If you are still alive, seeing that Karad has managed to
destroy his opponent you hurry into the crypt, fol-
lowed by the Resistance. Turn to 150.

395
The evil Canker reaches for you with foul tentacles

Will you:

Attack the Canker with your sword? Turn to 186
Throw your lantern at the

monstrosity? Turn to 292
Throw a Heal-all at it (if you have
one)? Turn to 346
396

The sodden path twists and turns, changing direction
every few hundred metres. The path reaches a T-junc-
tion in front of a dead elm. Will you go:

Left? Turn to 285
Right? Turn to 198

397

Your opponent falls and you break through the coven’s
ranks and find yourself at the foot of the plinth. You
arrive just in time to hear Nazek shout, ‘Oh Kurakil,
great Infernal Beast! Oh Miphreas, the Soul Destroyer!
Be free of your prison!’ The spell is complete! A
tumble of thunder reverberates round the crypt and
the night sky is torn apart by a bolt of lightning that
streaks down out of the clouds, through the hole in
the vaulted ceiling and into the crypt, striking the
Demafrauge. There is a dazzling explosion of light and
the lid of the chest flies open. Stepping out of the
thick smoke that is rising from the casket is a foul
monstrosity at least five metres tall. The creature's
torso is humanoid and covered with shimmering
bronze scales. Sprouting from its shoulders are a pair
of enormous, leathery, bat-like wings; vicious spikes
protrude from its spine, which ends in a dragon’s long
tail. The demonic beast’s head is like that of a wolf,
but on a larger scale, with fangs as long as knives and
two homs growing from the top of its skull. The
Kurakil throws back its head and lets out an animal
roar. At last it is free after many centuries trapped in
limbo, Although you were too late to prevent its
release, you may still be able to defeat the Infernal
Beast. Will you attack the Demon with Deliverer (turn
to 250) or use something else against if (tum to 270);
or will you first read the Spell of Locking, if you have
it, by tuming to the number on the page from the
Grimoire on which the spell is written?

398-400

398

Unnervingly, you find that the bottle is slightly warm,

and you wonder how fresh the blood it contains is.
Retum to 8o.

399
You take the full force of the kick in your chest: i
throws You back into the yard-and leaves you bruised
and winded (lose 3 STAMINA points). Picking yourself
up, you tun back into the stable (turn to ya).

400
The evil of Shekka is strong, but your faith is stronwer
You feel the dark poddess’s grip as your mind begins
to fail, With every fibre: of your being you force
yourself to move again. With one hand you manage
to trace the Rune of Good in the air Suddenly your
mind and body are free of-all tension and restraint
Yelling, you bring the Blessed Blade down with such
force that it goes straight through Nazek's body inte
the plinth beneath. The Warlock’s body suddenly goes

400

limp, Nazek is dead. The rest of the fighting is soon
over and the Cauldron of Midnight is no more.

Dawn comes and you see that the heavy, grey
clouds of the last week have given way to clear skies,
The month of Close is almost upon the land and there
is @ sharp chill in the air, but the oppressive atmosphere
of evil has lifted, Lying beside Nazek’s immobile body
is the object of your whole quest: the Black Grimoire
When you have rested for a few days at Claybury,
you will return the evil book to Rassin Abbey, and
hever sgain will it threaten the safety of your home-
land. As you think of the abbey, you can just imagine
the scene: Brother Calamus is illuminating a text narrat-
ing the story of a truly heroic adventurer who over-
came the forces of evil to bring peace to the land, The
story of the Speilbreaker. Your story.

NN ee

Also in Fighting Fantasy

THE TROLLTOOTH WARS
Steve Jackson

It started with an ambush When Balthus Dire’s bloodlusting Hill
Goblins mount their raid on the Strongarm caravan, little do they
realize what dramatic consequences their actions will have. For that
caravan carries Cunnelwort, a mystical herb from Eastern Allansia,
destined for none other than the evil sorceror, Zharradan Marr! War
— between fwo forces well-matched for evil — is soon to ensue. -
Will Balthus Dire’s chaotics or Zharradan Marr's undead prove vict-
orious? The answer is here, in the first Fighting Fantasy novel

DEMONSTEALER
Marc Gascoigne

[t started with a burglary. Borne aloft on the back of an immense
bat, a sinister thier breaks into the tower of the sorcerer Yaztromo.
Guided by long-dead voices, he manages to make off with an an-
cient scroll whose secrets could spell doom and destruction for all
Allansia!

Chadda Darkmane is soon on the trail of the thief, But as the quest
grows ever longer, his nagging doubts about the power of sorcery
turn into nightmares. The trail leads far beyond northern Allansia, to
the Pirate Coast and the twisting alleyways of Rimon, where
Darkmane’s nightmares become flesh! For the thief has used the
ancient scroll to summon others to help him in his sorcerous task,
Demons who are not bound by the constraints of earthly forms —
who feast on the human spirit

398—400

398
Unnervingly, you find that the bottle is slightly «am.
and you wonder how fresh the blood it conta=s
Return to 8a,

399
You take the full force of the kick in your ches ¢
throws you back into the yard and leaves you Prasat
and winded (lose 3 sTAMINA points). Picking yooset
up, you run back into the stable (turn to 72).

400

The evil of Shekka is strong, but your faith is sy2eee
You feel the dark goddess’s grip as your minc sen=%:
to fail With every fibre of your being vou “>

yourself to move again. With one hand you mana

to trace the Rune of Good in the air, Suddez.» ~sour
mind and body are free of all tension and r=ssamt
Yelling, you bring the Blessed Blade down wo:> jaunt

force that it goes straight through Nazek’s oo29 2mm
the plinth beneath, The Warlocks body sacam us axa

400

limp. Nazek is dead. The rest of the fighting is soon
over and the Cauldron of Midnight is no more.

Dawn comes and you see that the heavy, grey
clouds of the last week have given way to clear skies,
The month of Close is almost upon the land and there
is a sharp chill in the air, but the oppressive atmosphere
of evil has lifted. Lying beside Nazek’s immobile body
is the object of your whole quest: the Black Grimoire.
When you have rested for a few days at Claybury,
you will return the evil book to Rassin Abbey, and
never again will it threaten the safety of your home-
iand. As you think of the abbey, you can just imagine
the scene: Brother Calamus is illuminating a text narrat-
ing the story of a truly heroic adventurer who over-
came the forces of evil to bring peace to the land. The
story of the Spellbreaker, Your story

