FIGHTING FANTASY BOOKS J i. Bes ae
Over 13 million copies sold worldwide! | | a “< a 4
Zagor! The very name of the Warlock of Firetop LIVINGSTONE /
Mountain strikes terror into all who hear it, Fo aaa
Banished trom the world of Titan, the sorcerer is —_ —— ay
slowly but surely regaining his strength. Within ae eee
Castle Argent, in the kingdom of Amarillia, Zagor © = ew ME
has been tointsformed into a demon. at
Such is his power, he must he destroyed, There are os a Fat)
several adventurers willing to yolunteer — maghty _ OF .'e, Le 4
Anvar the barbarian, the warrior Braxus, Stubble : | ee
the dwart, Sallazar the wizard — bat only one will = a
he chosen. Are YOU that here! | Py) try
fe fi) SOR — - phe
FIGHTING FANTASY - THE WORLD'S MOST or et os ae
POPULAR ADVENTURE GAMERQOK SERIES . ih a 22 , ~ NY hy \
Cover idusenuons by fan Kerns ane Martin McKenna . wy . }
' . ts
| & &
(7) PUPFIN ISBN Oe tien DSO500+4 | ’ aa’
ui -
uk Enos ——
CAS ae 9" FAOTEU 56546! .

™

Puffin Books

LEGEND OF ZAGOR

Zagor! The very name of the Warlock of Firetop Mountain
strikes terror into all who hear it. Banished from the world of
Titan by a heroic adventurer, the sorcerer is slowly but surely
regaining his strength in another land, far, far away. Within
Castle Argent, in the kingdom of Amarillia, Zagor has been
transformed into a Demon; soon his magical powers will know
no bounds.

Unless a new hero can be found in time, Zagor Will unleash his
atthies upon Amanilia. There are several adventurers willing to
volunteer ~ mighty Anvar the berbaran, the warrior Braxus,
Stubble the Dwarf, Sallazar the wizard — tat only one will be
chosen to venture into Castle Argent and destroy Zagur once
and far all Are YOU that hero?

Two dice, a pencil and an eraser are all you need to embark
on this astonishing adventure, which comes complete with its
own laborale combat syste and a score sheet to record your
progress. Many dangrr le ahead and your success is anything

certain, ifs up te YOU to decide which route to follow,
which dangery to tisk and which foes fo fight Be warmed: you
have never faced a challenge like this before!

Fighting Fantasy Gamebooks Steve Jackson and Ian Livingstone

1 THE WARLOCK OF FIRETOP 28. PHANTOMS OF FEAR present
MOUNTAIN 29. MIDNIGHT ROGUE
2 THE CITADEL OF CHAOS 50 CHASMS OF MALICE
3 THE FOREST OF DOOM 31. BATTLEBLADE WARRIOR
4 STARSHIP TRAVELLER 32. SLAVES OF THE ABYSS
5, CITY OF THIEVES 33 SKY LORD
6 DEATHTRAP DUNGEON 34. STEALER OF SOULS
7 ISLAND OF THE LIZARD KING 35. DAGGERS OF DARKNESS
8 SCORPION SWAMP 36 ARMIES OF DEATH
9 CAVERNS OF THE SNOW 37. PORTAL OF EVIL
WITCH 38. VAULT OF THE VAMPIRES
10 HOUSE OF HELL 39 FANGS OF FURY
11 TALISMAN OF DEATH ge. DEAD OF NIGHT
12 SPACE ASSASSIN 41. MASTER OF CHAOS
13 FREEWAY FIGHTER . 42. BLACK VEIN PROPHECY OF
:4 TEMPLE OF TERROR 43. THE KEEP OF THE LICH-LORD
15 THE RINGS OF KETHER 44, LEGEND OF THE SHADOW
16 SEAS OF BLOOD WARRIORS
17 APPOINTMENT WITH FEAR 45. SPECTRAL STALKERS
18 REBEL PLANET 46 TOWER OF DESTRUCTION
19. DEMONS OF THE DEEP 47. THE CRIMSON TIDE
20. SWORD OF THE SAMURAI 48. MOONRUNNER
21, TRIAL OF CHAMPIONS 49 SIEGE OF SARDATH
22 ROBOT COMMANDO 50. RETURN TO FIRETOP
23. MASKS OF MAYHEM MOUNTAIN
24 CREATURE OF HAVOC 51 PLAGUE OF THE UNDEAD Jan Livi
25 BENEATH NIGHTMARE 52 NIGHT DRAGON
CASTLE 53 SPELLBREAKER an Livingstone
26 CRYPT OF THE SORCERER .
27 STAR STRIDER Illustrated by Martin McKenna
Steve Jackson’s SORCERY!
1 THE SHAMUTANTI HILLS 3 THE SEVEN SERPENTS
2 KHARE — CITYPORT OF TRAPS 4. THE CROWN OF KINGS

FIGHTING FANTASY — The Introductory Role-playing Game
THE RIDDLING REAVER — Four Thrilling Adventures

The Fighting Fantasy Novels

THE TROLLTOOTH WARS — Chaos Invades Allansia
DEMONSTEALER — Chadda Darkmane Returns
SHADOWMASTER — Chadda Darkmane and Death

The Advanced Fighting Fantasy System

OUT OF THE PIT — Fighting Fantasy Monsters

TITAN — The Fighting Fantasy World

DUNGEONEER — An Introduction to the World of Role-playing Games
BLACKSAND! — More Advanced Fighting Fantasy PUFFIN BOOKS

PUFFIN BOOKS

Published by the Penguin Group
Penguin Books Ltd. 27 Wrights Lane, London w8 5tz, England
Penguin Books USA Inc, 375 Hudson Street, New York. New York 10014, USA
Penguin Books Australia Ltd, Ringwood, Victoria. Australia
Penguin Books Canada Ltd, 10 Aleorn Avenue, Toronto, Ontario, Canada Mgv 332
Penguin Books (NZ) Ltd, 182-190 Wairau Road. Auckland 10, New Zealand

Penguin Books Lid, Regielered Offices: Harmondsworth, Middlesex, England

First published 1993
LZ57TQ 1 8b gq 2

Concept copynght (© Steve Jackson and Jan Livingstone, 1993
Texl copyrigh! © Ian Livingstone, 1093
IWustrations copyright © Marhn McKenna, 1993
All rights reserved

The moral right of the author has been asserled

Typeset by Datix International Ltd, Bungay, Suffolk
Filmset in Monopheto Palatino
Printed in England by Clays Ltd, St Ives plc

Except in the United States of America, this book is sold subject
la the condition that # shall nat, by way of trade or otherwise, be lent,
re-sold, hired out, or otherwise circulated without the publisher's
prior consent in any form of binding or cover olher than that In
which [t is published and without a similar condition including this
condition being imposed on lhe subsequent purchaser

CONTENTS

INTRODUCTION
7
ADVENTURE SHEET
32
BACKGROUND
306

LEGEND OF ZAGOR
43
INTRODUCTION

Before embarking on your adventure, you must first
determine your strengths and weaknesses. These are
partly determined by dice. You must initially choose a
Hero to play in the adventure; first you may wish to
read through -this Introduction and the Background
which follows and then return here to make the choice
of which character to play. Your options are:

Anvar the Barbarian: As a Barbarian, you are im-
mensely tough and resilient. Hardened by years of
living, hunting and travelling in hills and mountains,
you are as skilful a fighter as any in the land of
Amarillia and you are proud of your skill. You know
almost nothing of the ways of magic, though — and, in
all truth, you don’t much care for it. Magic is the affair
of book-reading milksops! You prefer a good, clean
fight and you fear nothing and no man

Braxus the Warrior: Your name bespeaks your
honour; it is the name of a long-dead Amarillian king
— and, who knows, noble blood may flow in your
veins, too. You are as skilful a warrior as any Barbarian
and, while you are slightly less resilient, you are better
able to use magic. Perhaps the most versatile of any
type of adventurer, you are skilled with sword and
bow, and able to use magical weapons to best effect.

Stubble the Dwarf: Grumpy and tetchy you may be
(Stubble trouble!’ is a common waming among those
who know you), but a tough warrior you certainly are.
You have that native streak of good luck which many
Dwarfs from Grundia possess, and when exploring
dungeons and mines you have some special advantages
mere humans do not possess. You'll use magic if youhave
to, but you prefer to put your faith in your trusty axel

Sallazar the Wizard: No bard will ever sing epic tales of
your prowess with weapons, but what does that matter?
You are a master of magic: you can command spells to
avoid, confuse, weaken or defeat enemies, and you know
how to use magical items in ways mere warriors could
not. You are an adventurer of guile and stealth, and if you
are forced to fight ~ well, you will not die easily at the
hands of any enemy! By a quirk of fate, you have the same
name as the one-time Grand Wizard of Amarillia, and
you immodestly aspire to his rank, if not his tragic fate.

On pages 32~5 there are Adventure Sheets which you
may use to record the details of your chosen character.
On it you will find boxes for recording your skIL1,
STAMINA, LUCK and Magic Point scores. You are
advised either to record your scores on the Adventure
Sheet in pencil or to make photocopies of the sheet for
use in future adventures.

Skill, Stamina, Luck and Magic

Skill
Roll one dice. If you are Anvar or Braxus, add 6 to the
number rolled. If you are Stubble, add 5 to the number

8

rolled. If you are Sallazar add 4 to the number rolled.
Enter your total in the skiILL box on the Adventure
Sheet.

Stamina
Each character determines his stAMINA differently. If
you are Anvar, roll one dice and add 18 to the number
rolled. If you are Braxus or Stubble, roll two dice and
add 12 to the total rolled. If you are Sallazar, roll three
dice and add 6 to the total. Enter the complete total in
the STAMINA box on the Adventure Sheet.

Luck
Roll one dice. If you are Stubble, add 5 to the number
rolled. If you are Anvar, add 4 to the number rolled. If
you are Braxus or Saliazar, add 3 to the number rolled.
Enter your total in the tuck box on the Adventure Sheet.

Magie Points
Your character starts the adventure with a certain
number of Magic Points. If you are Anvar, you have 1
Magic Point, If you are Braxus, you have 3 Magic
Points. If you are Stubble, you have 2 Magic Points, If
you are Sallazar, you have 7 Magic Points.

For reasons that will be explained below, sxitt,
STAMINA, LUCK and Magic Point scores change con-
stantly during an adventure. You must keep an accurate
record of these scores and for this reason you are
advised either to write small in the boxes or to keep
an eraser handy. But never rub out your Initial scores.

Although you may be awarded additional sxrtt,

0

cL
STAMINA, LUCK and Magic Points, these totals may
never exceed your Initial scores except on very rare
occasions, when you will be instructed to this effect
on a particular page.

Your SKILL score reflects your swordsmanship and
general fighting expertise; the higher the better. Your
STAMINA score reflects your general constitution,
your will to survive, your determination and overall
fitness; the higher your stAminA, the longer you
will be able to survive. Your Luck score indicates
how naturally lucky a person you are (and whether
you are able to avoid certain hazards and perils
during your adventure). Your Magic Points score is a
measure of how effectively you are able to use spells
and magical items you may find along the way (and
also how adept you are at avoiding magical traps
and hazards), Luck — and magic — are very much
facts of life in the fantasy kingdom you are about to
explore.

Battles

You will often come across paragraphs in the book
which instruct you to fight a creature of some sort, An
option to flee may be given, but if it is not — or if you
choose to attack the creature anyway — you must
resolve the battle as described below,

First record the creature’s SKILL and STAMINA scores in
the first vacant Monster Encounter Box on your Adven-
ture Sheet. The scores for each creature are given each
time you have an encounter.

10

The sequence of combat is then:

1. Roll two dice once for the creature and add its
SKILL score. This total is the creature’s Attack
Strength.

2. Roll two dice once for yourself, Add the number
rolled to your current skILL score, This total is
your Attack Strength.

3. If your Attack Strength is higher than that of your
opponent, you have wounded it; proceed to Step 4.
If the creature's Attack Strength is higher than
yours, it has wounded you; proceed to Step 5. If
both Attack Strengths are the same, you have
avoided each other's blows; start the next Attack
Round from step 1, above.

4. You have wounded the creature, so subtract 2 points
from its STAMINA score. You may use your LUCK

here to do additional damage (see below). Proceed
to step 6.

5. The creature has wounded you, so subtract 2 points
from your Own STAMINA score, Again, you may
use LUCK at this stage (see below),

6. Make the appropriate adjustments to either the
creature’s or your Own STAMINA score (and to your
LUCK score if you used Luck; see below).

7. Begin the next Attack Round by returning to step
1. This sequence continues until the sTAMINA score
of either you or the creature you are fighting has
been reduced to zero or below (death).

11
Fighting More Than One Creature

If you come across more than one creature in a
particular encounter, the instructions on that page will
tell you whether you must fight the creatures one at a
time or all together,

If you are instructed to fight the creatures singly, the
battle proceeds exactly as described above, However,
if you defeat the first creature listed, you must then
immediately begin fighting the second creature on the
list. You fight the creatures one at a time, but you
must continue fighting until all your enemies are slain
(or until you are), You may not pause between fighting
different creatures for any reason (such as taking some
steps to restore lost sTAMINA points).

If you are instructed to fight all the creatures together,
you must fight all of them in one battle. In step 1 of
the combat sequence above, you must calculate Attack
Strengths for all the creatures attacking you, In step 3,
if the Attack Strength of any of your opponents is
higher than yours, you must proceed to step 5. If you
have the highest Attack Strength of all, proceed to
step 4 and you may choose which of your opponents
you have struck. Again, combat proceeds until either
you or all of your enemies are slain.

Luck

At various times during your adventure, either in
battles or when you find yourself in a situation in
which you could be either Lucky or Unlucky (details

12

of these are given in the relevant paragraphs), you
may call on your tuck to make the outcome more
favourable to you. But beware! Using Luck is a risky
business and, if you are Unlucky, the results could be
disastrous.

The procedure for using your Lucx is as follows: roll
two dice. If the number rolled is less than or equal to
your current LUCK score, you have been Lucky and
the result will go in your favour. If the number rolled
is higher than your current LucxK score, you have been
Unlucky and you will be penalized.

This procedure is known as Testing your Luck, Each
time you Test your Luck (regardless of the outcome)
you must subtract 1 point from your current LUCK
score. Thus you will soon realize that, the more you
rely on your Luck, the more risky this will become

Using Luck in Battles

In certain paragraphs of this book you will be told that
you must Test your Luck and you will be told the
consequences of being Lucky or Unlucky. However, in
battles you always have the option of using your
Luck, either to inflict more serious damage on a
creature you have just wounded or to minimize the
effects of a wound your opponent has just inflicted on
you

If you have just wounded your opponent, you may
Test your Luck as described above. If you are Lucky,
you have inflicted a severe wound and may subtract
an extra 2 points from the creature’s sTAMINA score.

13

T_T

However, if you are Unlucky, the wound was a mere
graze and you must restore 1 point of the creature’s
STAMINA (so that, instead of scoring the normal 2
points of damage, you have now scored only 1)

If the creature has just wounded you, you may Test
your Luck to try to minimize the wound. If you are
Lucky, you have managed to avoid the full damage of
the blow; restore 1 point of stamina (so that, instead
of causing 2 points of damage, it has caused only 1). If
you are Unlucky, you have taken a more serious blow
Subtract 2 extra sTAMINA point from your current
total.

Remember that you must subtract 1 point from your
Own LUCK scores each time you Test your Luck, whether
you are successful or not.

Testing your Skill

From time to time during your adventure you will find
yourself in a situation in which your physical strength,
reflexes and agility may affect whether you are able to
avoid some hazard or perform some action (such as
climbing a difficult and treacherous surface). When this
is the case, you will often be instructed to Test your
Skill.

The procedure for this is as follows: roll two dice. If
the total rolled is less than or equal to your current
SKILL score, you have been successful. If the total is
greater than your current SKILL score, you have failed.
The relevant paragraphs will tell you what success and

14

failure mean when you Test your Skill. However, you
do not have to subtract any points from your sKILL
score for Testing your Skill in this way. This is a crucial
way in which Testing your Skill is different from Testing
your Luck!

Sometimes you may have to face a difficult task in
which your skit is tested to the full — for example,
you may be instructed to Test your Skill, ‘adding 2 to
the number rolled’. What this means is that when you
roll two dice, you must add 2 to the total; if you had
rolled a 4 and a 3, say, your modified total would be
4 + 3 + 2 = g. You then compare this final total
with your SKILL to discover the outcome of Testing
your Skill.

Testing your Spot Skill

This is a special case of testing your skill which
applies when you may or may not discover (spot)
something hidden or concealed. The procedure here is
exactly the same as for Testing your Skill, but the
relevant paragraphs will instead instruct you to Test
your Spot Skill,

Magic Points

Magic Points are used in two ways in this adventure:
they are used for casting spells and for using magical
items.

Some important magic items you may find on your
adventure need to be primed with magic in order to

15

ee ees

make them function. If you find such an item, you
must subtract i from your current Magic Points score
in order to be able to use it. Thereafter, you can use
the magic item as instructed. If you do not have any
Magic Points and you find such a magic item, you
may choose to keep the item and make a note of its
powers. Later in the adventure, you may be able to
gain 1 or more Magic Points (notably from Magic
Rings) and, if you do, you will then be able to use the
magic item,

Any adventurer may use magic items during this
adventure, although some magic items may not be
usable by all adventurers; the description of the magic
item wil! state who can and who cannot use it. All
adventurers can also cast magic spells from magic
scrolls discovered during the adventure, although 1
Magic Point must be spent to cast the spell from the
scroll. However, Sallazar alone knows a number of
spells which are described in the Amarillian Grimoire,
below, and he alone can use any of these spells
(provided he has enough Magic Points, of course), The
description of each of these spells explains when and
where it may be used, and its effects. IF you choose to
have Sallazar as your adventurer, you may wish to
photocopy the spell book for easy reference when
playing the adventure

Adventurers other than Sallazar may sometimes be
able to use a spell, usually by finding a magical scroll
on which the spell is inscribed. If you find a spell in
this way, you should refer to the Amarillian Grimoire
for details of what the spell does.

16

Restoring Skill, Stamina, Luck and Magic
Points

Skill

Your skILL score will not change very often during
your adventure. Occasionally a paragraph may give an
instruction to increase or decrease your SKILL score.
Your sKILL score cannot exceed its Initial level unless
you are specifically instructed to the contrary. You
may have the chance during this adventure to acquire
items, such as a magical weapon, which will increase
your Attack Strength. If you manage to acquire two
such weapons, you cannot gain bonuses to your Attack
Strength for both of them so that, for example, you
cannot use both a Magic Sword and a Magic Axe at
the same time! Likewise, stronger armour will add a
bonus to your Attack Strength and, obviously, you
cannot wear more than one suit of armour at a time!

Stamins and Provisions
Your STAMINA score will go up and down a lot during
your adventure as you fight enemies and undertake
arduous tasks. As you near your goal, your STAMINA
score may sink dangerously low and battles may
become particularly risky, so be careful!

Your backpack contains enough Provisions for 12
meals. You may rest and eat at any time except when
fighting. Eating a meal restores 4 STAMINA points
When you eat a meal, add 4 points to your current
STAMINA score and deduct 1 from the Provisions on

17

nn
your Adventure Sheet. A separate Provisions box is
provided on your Adventure Sheet for recording details
of Provisions. You have a long way to go, so use your
Provisions wisely! Remember that your sTAMINA score
may never exceed its Initial value unless you are
specifically instructed otherwise in a paragraph.

There will be times during your adventure when you
will be told that you must eat a meal. When you have
to do this, deduct 1 point from your Provisions on
your Adventure Sheet but do not regain any lost
STAMINA for doing this. If you are told to eat a meal
but you don’t have any Provisions left, you must
subtract 2 points from your current STAMINA score.

During your adventure, however, you should be able
to acquire at least some extra Provisions to add to
those you began with. This will enable you to maintain
STAMINA throughout the adventure. However, you
cannot carry more than 12 Provisions at any one time!

Luck

Your Luck score will also go down during the adven-
ture as you Test your Luck. Additions to your Luck
score may be awarded when you have been especially
fortunate, and similarly you may be told to reduce your
LUCK when you make an important mistake; details of
such events are given in the appropriate paragraphs of
the book. Remember that, as with skILt and sTAMINA,
your LUCK may never exceed its Initial value unless
you are specifically told this,

Apart from Testing your Luck, you will also be given

some opportunities for ‘spending’ Luck. You will be
asked whether you wish to deduct 1 point from your
current LUCK score in order to increase your chance of
a successful outcome — for example, if you are told to
make a dice roll, you can often modify it by spending
LucK (in this case, you must decide whether to spend
the Luck point before you roll the dice!). Of course,
LUCK points are precious and you cannot afford this
luxury very often. Making the right choice about
whether to spend a Luck point in this way can be
important for success in this adventure.

Magic Points

Your Magic Points total will decrease each time you
find 2 magical item and use it, or if you cast a spell.
During your adventure, however, you will find magical
places and items which will increase your Magic Points.
However, your Magic Points score cannot exceed its
Initial value unless you are specifically instructed to
‘he contrary! Magic Points are precious, and you do
not have very many of them; be sure to use what
magic you have wisely and well,

18 | 19

Equipment

You start your adventure with some simple, basic
equipment that you will need for the adventure ahead;
you also have some Gold Pieces, and you will! be able
to purchase some extra items when the adventure
begins. All of the adventurers have the following
items: a suit of thin leather armour, a small shield and
a lantern to allow you to see in the dark You also
have a backpack for carrying items, with enough
Provisions for 12 meals inside it, You have a small
spare knife, which you can use if you should ever
suffer the misfortune of losing your main weapon; but
if you ever have to use this knife to fight with, your
blows will cause your opponent to lose only 1 point
from his sTAMINA in combat. If you are Braxus, you
also have a sword; if you are Anvar or Stubble, you
have a battle axe; if you are Sallazar, you carry a
strong wooden staff. You carry a stringed leather
pouch with a number of Gold Pieces in it; roll three
dice and add 2 to the total rolled: this is how many
Gold Pieces you have with you (between 5 and 20). If
you are Stubble the Dwarf, you have 5 extra Gold
Pieces — the dwarfish love of gold is well known!

You may find treasure, in the form of Gold Pieces or
valuable objects or items, along the way; whenever
you come across any treasure, you should make a note
of it in the Treasure box on your Adventure Sheet. You
may find yourself in the position of being able to
trade treasure for equipment, help or information in
this adventure, so be honest and keep an accurate
record of how much treasure you acquire!

20

Advantages

Each of the adventurers — Anvar, Braxus, Stubble and
Sallazar — has some special advantage which he alone
can use

Anvar has a sixth sense waming him of imminent
attacks! Sometimes you will meet a creature (or even a
trap) which is able to surprise you and inflict damage
before you are able to attack it yourself, Anvar cannot
be surprised, so, if a paragraph instructs you to lose
STAMINA points or you find yourself trapped in some
way because you are surprised, Anvar does not suffer
any damage, because he is able to react and defend
himself in time.

Braxus’s talent is his versatility, He can freely use all
armour and weapons which other adventurers cannot
Therefore he doesn’t suffer any of the disadvantages
other adventurers have (see Disadvantages below).

Stubble has a special knowledge of certain underground
monsters and how best to strike at them, knowing
their weak spots, If you confront a creature with the
word ‘Stone’ in its name (like Stone Statue or Stone
Golem), Stubble can add 2 to his Attack Strength
when fighting such monsters.

Sallazar is very perceptive and eagle-eyed. Whenever
he has to Test his Spot Skill, he can subtract 2 from the
dice roll. He is also able to read special magical tomes,
and he understands some details of magical runes,
which other characters do not,

21

OS ee

Disadvantages

Each adventurer also has some weakness, limitation or
disadvantage which balances his special talent

Anvar is very uncomfortable wearing any kind of
metal armour (chain mail or plate mail); it’s cumbersome
and restrictive. As Anvar you simply cannot wear
plate mail and, while you can tolerate chain mail (and
wear it), you will gain no bonus to your Attack
Strength for using it. And, while you can use a
longbow and arrows, you are not trained in the use of
a crossbow; if you do use one, you must subtract 2
from your Attack Strength.

Sallazar has a similar problem, but it is more severe: he
cannot use chain mail or plate mail armour at all (the
wizard could barely move in plate mail). Moreover,
Sallazar cannot use a crossbow, a longbow, or a two-
handed sword; he must keep at least one hand free for
spell-casting!

22

Stubble cannot use a two-handed sword — it’s too big
for him — and the longbow is also too large for a
Dwarf to use. He can wear chain mail, but he cannot
use plate mail armour unless it is specifically Dwarf-
size (if you are not specifically told that a particular set
of plate mail armour is Dwarf-sized, then Stubble
cannot use it)

Braxus is so versatile he has no such disadvantages!
For the other characters, be sure to note their disadvan-
tage which is recorded in the appropriate box on their
Adventure Sheet.

Special Treasures

During your perilous quest you may find many treas-
ures. However, in the dungeon where your adventure
awaits you, there are several treasures which are simi-
lar: the Tower Chests. Each of these is a small, locked,
wooden casket with a trap placed upon it. Whenever
you find one of these Tower Chests, if you wish to
open it {you do not have to do so) you must Test your
Luck, If you are Lucky, you open the chest safely. If
you are Unlucky, you will trigger a scything blade
inside the tid which will slash your arms, and you
must deduct 3 points from your STAMINA. The trap
can be bypassed by using a simple Open spell (if you
can!) which automatically opens the chest without
harming you.

Each time you find one of these Tower Chests and
you open it, roll one dice. If you roll an odd number,
you will find a Golden Talisman. [f you roll an even

23

eee, eee
number, you will find a Silver Dagger. You may
increase your current LUCK score by 1 point each time
you take a Talisman or Dagger from a Tower Chest.
Keep a careful record, in the Talismans and Daggers
boxes on your Adventure Sheet, of how many of each
item you acquire during your adventure. They will be
very precious to you in your desperately perilous final
battle!

If you are fortunate, you may also find one or more
Magic Rings. Each time you find a Magic Ring, you
regain 1 spent Magic Point (obviously, you do not
have to spend a Magic Point to use such a Magic
Ring). ff your Magic Points total is at its Inifial level,
you can keep the ring and use it once your Magic
Points total has been reduced, You cannot use a Magic
Ring to increase your Magic Points total above its
Initial level,

If you are lucky enough to find any other magical
items, make a note of what each item can do to help
you in your quest. Using the right magical item at the
right time may make all the difference between failure
and glorious success

Special Hazards

Among the hazards you may encounter in your quest
are plagues and poisons. You may contract one or
more forms of plague from the attacks of infected rats
or from vampire bats or worse. You will be instructed
in the relevant paragraphs what will happen if you
contract any form or forms of plague. If you are
wretched enough to suffer two — or even more —
kinds of plague at the same time, the effects are
cumulative! Be sure to take whatever precautions you
can against these dread maladies; seek help and healing
without delay, should you contract plague.

Some of your evil opponents and enemies will even
stoop to using poisoned weapons against you, Such
weapons will inflict damage doubly: a wound from the
weapon itself and extra damage from the venom or
poison smeared on the weapon. Keep a note of damage
you sustain both from poison and from weapon attacks;
they will both reduce your sTAMINA, but the effects of
poison may be telieved by specific antidotes and
remedies. However, such antidotes will not affect any
wounds you may suffer from actual weapon blows.

Hints on Play

Your journey will be perilous and you may well fail at
your first attempt. Make notes and draw a map as you
explore; a map will prove invaluable in later forays in
this adventure, and it will enable you to progress more
rapidly to unexplored regions, You will be exploring a
very large area, and sometimes you may wish to
retrace your steps in order to revisit places of particular
value or to check areas left behind you. Without a
map you may not be able to follow the right path to
success.

Not all areas contain treasure or useful information;
many contain traps or creatures which you will no
doubt fall foul of. You may take wrong turnings
during your quest and, while you may indeed progress
through to your ultimate destination, it is by no means
certain that you will find what you are searching for.
However, the more areas you explore, the better will
be your chance of success in the adventure ahead

Be wary about Testing your Luck unless a paragraph
tells you that you must do this! Generally, when it
comes to fights, you should Test your Luck only to
keep yourself alive if an opponent's blow would other-
wise kill you. The other occasion when you should use
LUCK is to inflict extra damage in the final combat
against your dire enemy in this adventure — if you've
got enough Luck left to use! Don’t Test your
Luck in order to try to inflict extra damage upon your
enemy unless this is really essential! Luck points are
precious!

26

You must collect as many Golden Talismans and
Silver Daggers as possible during your adventure.
However, in order to do this, you will have to explore
the dungeons thoroughly, thus risking many more
combats with hostile creatures and encountering more
traps and hazards. You will have to balance your
desire for Talismans and Daggers against the need to
avoid unnecessary combats and hazards. When your
resources (Provisions, Magic Points, Luck, etc.) are
beginning to weaken and you cannot replenish them
easily, you must try and make for the most direct
route to your final enemy — if you know it!

Seek for ways to swap your treasure for equipment
and help during your adventure. Gold Pieces are of
little use: you cannot eat them, use them in combats,
or cast spells with them. But they will buy you food,
weapons, even magic — if you can find someone to
trade with!

You will soon realize that paragraphs make no sense if
read in numerical order. It is essential that you read
only the paragraphs you are instructed to go to.
Reading other paragraphs lessens the excitement and
surprise during play. The only true way to success in
this adventure involves minimizing risk; any player, no
matter how weak his or her initial dice rolls, should be
able to struggle through to glory in the end,

yt

27

THE AMARILLIAN GRIMOIRE

(Each spell costs 1 Magic Point to cast unless otherwise
noted. If the spell is found by picking up a scroll, the
same number of Magic Points is required to cast it. For
spells which can be cast immediately before a combat,
you may cast only one before each combat, You
cannot, for example, cast both the Skill Spell and the
Fast Hands spell before a combat; only one spell is al-
lowed!)

Create Food
This spell creates extra Provisions. If you spend 1
Magic Point, you can add 1 to your Provisions; if you
spend 2 Magic Points you can add 3 to your Provi-
sions; if you spend 3 Magic Points, you can add 5 to
your Provisions, This spell cannot be cast during
combat.

Jump
This spell enables you to leap safely a distance of up
to six metres, If you are faced with an obstacle (a
chasm, a trapped corridor, etc.) which is not stated to
be longer than six metres, you may use this spell to

28

traverse the obstacle safely. This spell cannot be cast
during a combat

Light
If you lose your lantern, or if it no longer works, this
spell creates a long-lasting small sphere of light which
can be stored and used as a lantern whenever the need
arises. Each use of the spell illuminates only one
section of passageway, however, You cannot cast this
spell during combat

Luck Spell
This spell increases your current Luck score by 1
point. Your current LUCK score cannot exceed its
Initial value, and you cannot cast this spell during a
combat.

Open
This simple spell opens one trapped treasure chest or
locked door safely. If the chest or door has a trap, it is
rendered harmless by the spell (even it if is a Magic
Trap). You cannot cast this spell during combat,

Skill Spell
This spell enables you to react and move faster,
adding 1 to your current sKILt for a short time. It can
be cast just before a combat begins (not during one!)
to aid you in fighting, or just before you have to Test
your Skill for some reason. The spell expires as soon as
one combat has finished, or after you have Tested your

Skill.

Fast Hands (costs 2 Magic Points}
This spell can be cast immediately before any combat
but not during one. For the first three Attack Rounds
of the combat, you may roll dice twice when working
out your Attack Strength and take the higher total
rolled.

Fireball (costs 2 Magic Points)

This spell can be used in any Attack Round instead of
a weapon attack. Cast this spell before rolling for
the Attack Strengths of your opponent and yourself, If
you have the higher Attack Strength, your adversary’s
body is shrouded in flames and he loses 5 STAMINA
points. If you have the lower Attack Strength, though,
you spell is ruined and the creature hits you.

Magic Screen (costs 2 Magic Points)
You can cast this spell at any time except during a
combat. Once it is cast, the next spell which is cast at
you by an enemy will not affect you. The Magic
Screen only neutralizes one spell cast at you, however

Death Spell (costs 3 Magic Points)
This spell can be cast in any Attack Round, If you
have the higher Attack Strength, this spell kills in-
stantly any creature with a sxiLL score of 9 or less.
This spell will not affect any Undead creature or
Zagor, your nemesis!

Thunderbolt (costs 3 Magic Points)

This spell works just like a Fireball except that, if you
cast the spell successfully, your opponent is struck by

30

a glowing ball of white-hot electricity and loses 7
STAMINA points!

Teleport (costs 4 Magic Points)

This spell enables you to move long distances through
a dungeon by instant magical teleportation, avoiding
many hazards and enemies. You can cast this spell
only at certain special magical portals. When you
confront such a portal, you will be asked whether you
wish to cast this spell; if you do, you will be instructed
accordingly.

Steal Treasure (costs 5 Magic Points)

This spell summons either a Golden Talisman or a
Silver Dagger (you may choose which) from the hidden
treasures of the dungeon, Add iz to your tally of the
appropriate Special Treasure. You may not cast Steal
Treasure more than twice during the adventure, and
you do not gain any tucx points for acquiring a
Talisman or Dagger in this way.

31

ADVENTURE QHEET

ANVAR-
BARBARIAN

SKIL!
tere ;
piri
sdi/f=

STAMINA
fitiel
vkil/—

MAGIC
withing

ADVANTAGES
Cau’ f be surprised

TREASURE

POSSESSIONS

DISADVANTAGES
Caut’t wear plate
mail Nu borus to
attack shength with
chair maite Subtract 3
front attack strength
Tit crass be

Les eal
TALISMANS
DAGGERS

.

SRAXUS-—
“ARRIOR

POSSESSIONS

ADVANTAGES
Can use any
WeMPOS

DISADVANTAGES

STAMINA

iti- TREASURE PROVISIONS

TALISMANS

DAGGERS

NOTES

YUL

STUBBLE-
DWARF

STAMINA
inital
skifi«

LUCK
initial
luck=

MAGIC
intiud
oiinfaas

POSSESSIONS

ADVANTAGES
Add 2 tu attack
strengih us stone
morsters

TREASURE

DISADVANTAGES
Can't use longbow
or teo-handed
weapon

PROVISIONS :
TALISMANS

a

Ss AMINA
fai

ADVANTAGES
Add 2 to skill
when testing spet
skill

TREASURE

DISADVANTAGES
Can’! nse metal
armour, bow, oe}
fwo-hauded weapon

PROVISIONS

= |
DAGGERS

ng!

BACKGROUND

It is five long and weary years since the armies of the
Bone Demon laid waste so much of the beautiful,
perilous land of Amarillia. The Zombies and Orcs
which infested the plains of the land were foul enough,
but the Demon’s War Dragons slew thousands of
men, Dwarfs, Elves:and Centaurs before the Demon
itself was finally trapped inside the Casket of Souls.
Victory was had at last, but at what a cost! Zombies
and worse still stalk the land, for there are few warriors
left to destroy them. The court of the boy-king, Irian,
is said to be riven by petty squabbles and scheming
advisers. Most folk live behind shuttered windows and
bolted doors these days. Hospitality to a traveller such
as yourself is but a memory now.

Many days of foot-wearying travel have brought
you to Sanctuary, the royal court within the island
known as the Cauldron, the furthest island of Icecap
range. You are ushered swiftly into an audience with
the king. You are startled by his appearance: most
people still call him ‘boy-king’, but Irian has grown
almost to full stature now and, while he is still very
strong and surely inexperienced in the arts of king-
ship, his voice is commanding and his manner as-
sured

‘Greetings,’ he says as you kneel before his throne.
‘Oh, do please stand up. I already have all the grovel-

lers I need here in Sanctuary. I can scarcely do with
another one. Come.’ He rises and leaves the throne
room and marches along a narrow corridor to his
personal chambers. Somewhat startled by his informal-
ity, you follow him.

‘Look,’ he says as he strides across to a table, picks up
a black cloth embroidered with golden runes and
gently polishes a large chunk of blue-white crystal.
The crystal hums slightly and a ghostly scene appears
in the midst of the room. A white-haired old man is
sitting in the most cluttered study you have ever seen:
papers, crystal balls, bundles of bats’ wings, bottles of
herbs, and a jumble of other articles are scattered all
over the floor and walls.

hritably, the old man looks up at you. ‘Eh? What is it?’
he snaps.

‘Gereth, the hero I spoke of is here. Relate once more
what you told me — and perhaps you have learnt even
more?’

‘Oh, yes, hmmm. Well, 1 suppose you've told him
about the Demon Throne and explained the Laws of
Fractured Resonance and ~

The king interrupts the ghostly apparition. “Time
erows so short. You can explain much better than 1.’

The old man’s gaze turns upon you. He looks faintly
disapproving, ‘Harrumph. Very well, then listen
closely, young whippersnapper. I take it that at least
you know about King Kraal and the defeat of the
Bone Demon of the Bottomless Pit?’

| 36 37
You shudder slightly. Everyone knows how the armies
of the Bone Demon were finally confronted and the
Bone Demon was imprisoned in the Casket of Souls, in
the barren expanse of the Plains of Peril, where the
Bottomless Pit still smokes and churns to this day.
This was some years past, but the scars of that terrible
war mark Amarillia still.

‘And you know of the Casket of Souls?’ You nod.
‘Well, when it was made, magic was woven into it to
enable the Demon’s banishment to the outer planes.
Unfortunately, however, there was a slight flaw in the
way the magic was woven. Since that magic allowed a
magical creature to be drawn out of your world, it also
created a resonance allowing certain magical creatures
info your world as well. I'm rather afraid,’ the old man
says in a schoolmasterish tone as he adjusts the slightly
ridiculous lenses perched on his nose, ‘that a definitely
magical creature has done just that. Appeared in your
world, that is. Out of mine. | can’t say we're sorry to
see him leave us, but our gain is going to be your loss
unless you can stop him emerging in his full power.
Worse still, he is entering your world where the

38

Casket of Souls was taken after the Demon was
panished. At Castle Argent.’ The old man pauses for
creath. ‘He is named Zagor and he is a great wizard,
one of the most powerful my world has ever seen. My
world is called Titan, | suppose you've heard your
scholars mention it, hmmm? Great Allansia with its
wicked Port Blacksand ruled by the wretched Lord
Azzur and his corrupt cronies, the great civilizations of
the Old World, the crawling chaos of Khul ... you
have heard of it? Well, anyway, I won’t ramble on
about my home, I'll become sentimental and waste
time. Let’s get back to Zagor.

Twice we have believed him slain, but twice he has
resurrected himself. All that was left of his original
form is a skeletal arm, but that is enough. When he
was drawn into your world, his being became fused
with the trapped Demon, and now a demonic form of
Zagor grows even as I speak. Although I am powerless
to prevent it happening, from the seclusion of my
world, I detected Zagor being drawn into yours, and I
was able to send some magic after him: some talismans
of gold and daggers of silver. They will be scattered
around the lair within which Zagor is now growing.
Each of them will weaken him, so, when you get there,
be sure to collect as many as you can’

You aren’t sure you like the way the old man just
assumes you're going to march straight into the deso-
late, evil ruins of Castle Argent! It’s hundreds of
Kilometres away, across the Frozen Wastes and the
dangerous, monster-infested icy seas. But he goes on
talking anyway.

39

‘This time, Zagor simply has to be destroyed. It’s not
enough to kill him. You'll have to make sure his body
is burned to nothingness in the Heartfires below Castle
Argent, Where the Grand Wizards of your world
centred the conjuring of the Great Fire Wall from the
outermost points of Amarillia — though you'll know all
about that, of course.’

‘I thought this was merely a tale or a deception,’
murmurs the king sadly, ‘until Gereth told me about
certain changes made at Castle Argent. My own spies
were able to verify those details.’

The old man’s eyes look bright now. “Ah yes, the
castle. It's metamorphosing, changing form, drawing
Zagor’s old magic and servants into it, strengthening
him as he grows. Not all of that magic may be dark
and evil; you may be able to find help there, certainly,
in addition to the items | have placed there. But I'm
afraid that one of the mightiest and most dangerous of
the Demon's War Dragons, one which escaped destruc-
tion in the final battle ten years-ago, has something to
do with the magical changes within the castle. It has
learnt something of the ways of magic, and it seeks
revenge for its defeat by allying with Zagor to wreak
havoc on all Amarillia. Perhaps, in its madness, it
thinks of him as the Demon it once served. Which, of
course, Zagor is ~ in part.’ The ghostly scene begins
to fade and tremble. Faint white sparks crackle at the
edge of the crystal. The old man’s voice rises in
surprise and annoyance. ‘Not yet! i should tell you
about the —’

40

The crystal explodes into a thousand fragments. You
and King Irian look down, stunned, at the smoking
remains of the table it stood upon. You do not know
where the magic, which banished the old man back to
his world, came from, but a feeling of evil and menace
hangs in the air around you

‘Brave adventurer,’ the king beseeches you. ‘I have no
one else to send. My wizards give all they can,
preserving the Fire Wall which guards all Amarillia;
my loyal knights and the few nobles | can trust have
more work than they can perform, simply preventing
this kingdom from tearing itself apart. I beg you, go to
Castle Argent. A ship is readied for you. Destroy the
wizard-fiend who comes to ravish our land. Return to
me after carrying out deeds worthy of the knighthood
I] shall then grant you!’

With the weight of a world’s fate resting on your
shoulders — or so it feels — you cannot refuse the
quest. Turn to paragraph 1.

41

r3

1
A ship has been readied to carry you westwards to the
coastline of Tower Island, where the forbidding maj-
esty of ruined Castle Argent lies. If you decide to set
off immediately, turn to 220. If you want to spend
some Gold Pieces purchasing equipment, turn to 56. If
you want to try acquiring some extra gold for buying
equipment, tum to 206. If you want to consult one of
the king’s sages for advice or help before you set sail,
turn to 154.

2
You must eat a meal during your time here. Stuffed
inside a pillow, you find a Magic Ring! What's more,
you also find a scroll with an Open spell stuffed under
the mattress. Gain 1 Luck point for this find. Turn to
33.

3

You stand at the end of a long passageway, looking
west. You can see three doors along the south wall,
and on the northern side there is a passageway leading
off northwards between the first and second doors.
There is also a door on the north side of the passage,
directly opposite the third and most distant of the
south-facing doors. At the far end of the western
passage, a door faces you as the passage turns north-
wards. You feel sure that this passageway leads deeper
into the heart of Castle Argent. Choose an area here
which you have not explored, Will you make for:

4-5
The first door to the south? Turn to 320
The second door to the south? Turn to 144
The north side passage? Tum to 218
The third door to the south? Turn to 378
The single door to the north? Tum to 196
The far end of the west passage? Turn to 357

As the monster assembles itself, you can perform two
actions before you will have to fight it, such as casting
a spell, eating a meal (only one of your two actions
can be eating a meal}, drinking a Potion, and so on.
You can make a free attack with either action; this
allows you to subtract 2 points for each attack from
the sTAMINA of the Skeletal Dragon as shown below.

SKELETAL DRAGON SKILL 10 STAMINA 20

If you win, a search here reveals a fine haul of treasure.
You find a Tower Chest and a separate small casket
which contains 7 Gold Pieces and a slim wand made
of ebony inlaid with silver runes. This wand is useful
to you only if you are Sallazar the wizard; if you are
Sallazar, turn to 25. If you are not, it’s time to explore
elsewhere; turn to 51

5
You are standing mid-way along the Passage of Hawks.
Looking south, you can see the door by which you
entered this level of the castle. To the east, there is a
green door in the south wall, then a crossroads, then
the passage continues east without any further doors
leading from it. To the west, there is a white door in

6

the south wall, then a corridor leading south, and
finally, some metres before the end of the passage,
there is a door in the south wall directly opposite a
northwards-leading passage. You should head for an
area you haven't explored before. Will you:

Head due south? Turn to 399
Open the green door to the east? Tum to 287
Make for the crossroads to the east? Tum to g2
Open the white door to the west? Turn to 224
Open the second door to the west? Tum to 275
Go west and down the south
passage? Turn to 72
Go west and down the north
passage? Turn to 385
JF
ma 2

Test your Skill, adding 2 to the number rolled, for the
doors are very heavy. Jf you are successful, you open
the doors with a great shove. If you fail, you still
manage to open the doors, but you sprain some
muscles in your side from shoving so hard, Deduct 2
points from your stTAMINA. Now you must Test your
Luck, If you are Lucky, turn to 103. If you are Unlucky,
tum to 265.

7-9

7
You are back in the great corridor known as the

Bronze Stride, and you march to the middle of it to
take your bearings and decide where to explore next
Turn to 44,

8

The crystal doors below the wooden stairway are
sundered; you find that all doors open before you as
the howl of angry, chaotic magic swirls and screams
about you. All is pandemonium. You feel as if you are
moving in a dream, hardly aware any longer who you
are or where exactly you are going, just guided
onwards by intuition, willpower and sheer guts! You
race through the carnage of Thulu’s Throne Room and
southwards towards the stone bridge. This has taken
you another i00 seconds. Now you must make a
crucial decision as you race across the stone bridge.
The more Luck points you spend, the faster you will
be able to move, dodging obstacles and the like — but
the more difficult any Test your Luck roll will become!
You may spend up to 5 LUCK points, Decide how
many you want to spend, then tum to 222

9
‘T am Elranel, Master Thief. This is one of my old
haunts, Castle Argent. I've lifted more pleasing little
items from round here than you could possibly count
up. Not much left these days though, not with these
stinking Orcs around. They’ve looted so much of the
place, and vandalized the rest. This is probably my last
visit. Time to teleport home, I reckon... That is,

10

unless you'd be interested in buying a little something?
Information, perhaps? Maybe some Orcbane?’ You
haggle a little with the EIf, and finally agree to a list of
prices for the help he’s prepared to offer. To consider
the items he has for sale, turn to 66, To consider the
information he could give you, turn to 22.

10
A tranquil, shallow pool of slightly milky water gleams
golden a few metres in front of you as you enter this
dark cavern and look around at the smooth, ages-old
stalagmites and stalactites within it. You think you can
now dimly remember the legend of Castle Argent’s
Pool of Gold: it was created by a long-dead alchemist
who brought this precious metal to Amarillia, which
originaily had none of its own. Eager for treasure, you
step forward to collect some of the precious gold.
When you wade into the shallow water, however,
what you took for a large boulder stirs and rises up on
a pair of knobbly, cylindrical ‘legs’ and moves to repel
you! In order to get your gold, you must fight this
strange enemy. If you prefer to run or flee from
combat at any time, the strange stone creature will
pursue you to the main cavern but will not enter it
(turn fo 186).

STONE GUARDIAN SKILL 8 STAMINA 14

If you win, roll one dice and add 2 to the number
rolled; this is the number of small chunks of gold (each
the equivalent of 1 Gold Piece) which you scavenge
from the Pool of Gold. You also find a crystal vial
holding a colourless oil; you may use this for one

it

combat only, if you do not have a magic weapon
(some monsters can be struck only by enchanted
weaponry). If you pour the oil over your weapon, it
will make your weapon magical for the duration of a
single combat (but you gain no bonus to your Attack
Strength for this). Now, you can explore the side-
passage on the way out, if you haven’t done so before
(turn to 208}, or make for the main cavern across the
tope bridge (turn to 186).

It

Unfortunately, the guards behind you are ever-vigilant.
You are surprised as a whip blow knocks you to your
knees. Lose 2 STAMINA points, and you must deduct 2
points from your Attack Strength for the first Attack
Round while you get to your feet. What’s worse, your
assailants here are formidable — and horrible ~— enemies.
Standing well over two metres tall, the Hellhorns,
which Zagor drew with him from some plane of
nightmare and chaos, carry great whips in their mon-
strous, clawed hands. Powerful and muscular, these
creatures are still tainted with chaos and disease; rot-
ting flesh hangs from their skeletal faces, and they are

12

well named — their horns are powerful and they will
try to butt you with them, as well as using their

whips. You must fight them together; turn to 174 to
fight.

12
It takes a long time to search the many dormitory
rooms thoroughly, so you must eat 2 meals here.
However, in a sealed tin carefully hidden behind a
shield hanging on one wall you find two flasks of
herbal liqueur, each of which will restore 4 points of
STAMINA when drunk (which you can do at any time
except during a combat). You also find three thick
slabs of oatmeal, magically crafted survival rations for
soldiers, each of which is enough for a whole meal;
these are so light you can carry them in addition to
your usual food, so they don’t count towards your
Provisions limit, Gain 1 LUCK point. Unfortunately,
your extended search means that you fall foul of a
truly ghastly prowler. As you are about to leave, a
shambling, rotting corpse in rags lurches towards you
and a miasma of flies buzzes about its suppurating
flesh. You have no chance to flee, and you sense that
this creature is extremely dangerous!

PLAGUE BEARER SKILL 5

If the Plaguer Bearer strikes you even once, tum to 45.
If you win, you can open one of the coloured doors
here if you haven't done so before: you may choose
the blue door (turn to 327) or the yellow door (tum to
205), or leave the barracks area and explore elsewhere
‘turn to 64)

STAMINA 4

1y~14

13

The door here is plain and looks creaky and slightly
warped, but it is locked. Forcing the door open, your
arm is slashed by a vicious, serrated scything blade
which slices down out of the frame opposite the lock.
Deduct 2 points from your stAmiINA. Yelping with
pain, you prepare to confront the creatures behind the
trapped door. However, what confronts you are three
starving, ragged, and very young men — one of them
hardly grown to manhood. As well as the ramshackle
bedding, the wonky table and the dilapidated chairs in
this room — which is lit by the blue glow of a magical
torch — you see a wooden chest. The young men back
away from you, heavy knives already in their hands.
They are clearly afraid of you and are not attacking. If
you want to fight them, turn to §9. If you prefer to
talk to them, tum to 100.

As you race through the guardrooms on your way
to the southern passageway, the scream of chaotic
magic in Castle Agent becomes almost unbearable.
Weird phantasms and illusions dance before your
eyes; ducking and dodging to avoid them, you need
another 30 seconds to cross the passageway (a Potion
of Flying will not reduce this time but, if you have a
Ring of Truesight, you may reduce the time to 10
seconds). You fling open the door leading to the
chasm of the Heartfires and race to the edge. If you
have 4 or more STAMINA points left, turn ta goo, If
you have 3 or fewer sTAMINA points left, turn to
310.

15-16

15

A cunning plan begins to hatch in your mind. Much of
the cosmetic powder that has been left here is very
pale in colour and, by daubing a great deal of it on
your face and hands ~ mixed with some of the oily
skin-creams here — you might just be able to pass as a
Zombie. You may be able to fool other Zombies or
equally mindless minions. You can take enough cream
and powder to disguise yourself, if you wish to do so;
you will be asked later on whether you're using this
disguise or not. Now, you can head along the north
passageway opposite (turn to 385) or go back east
along the Passage of Hawks (turn to 111).

16
The merchant has four Magic Arrows which cost 1
Gold Piece each. Each can be used just once, and
counts the same as an arrow or bolt fired from a
longbow or crossbow. He also has two unique and
very useful items. The first is a small, sealed blue-white
crystal via] with a pinch of grave dust inside it. If
you use this in combat by shattering the vial and
flinging the dust over an undead creature, you can
automatically inflict damage equal to half its Current
STAMINA (you will be told when you encounter a
monster which is undead). This vial costs 8 Gold
Pieces. The merchant also has a genie bottle, from
which you can summon a genie just once during a
combat. The genie will use magic to paralyse your
enemy, allowing you to overcome him automatically
(this will not affect any undead creatures, however, or
any Dragon, Golem or Animated Armour, or Zagor

17-18

himself ). The genie bottle costs 10 Gold Pieces. These
items are indeed expensive, so the merchant offers you
a form of part-exchange: he has some magic artefacts
of his own that need recharging so, for each Magic
Point you are prepared to spend helping him with this,
he will knock 1 Gold Piece off the price of one of his
goods. If you buy any of his items, remember to
amend your Adventure Sheet accordingly. If you want
to buy anything else from the merchant, turn to 168. If
you want to leave and search elsewhere, turn to 218.

17
You find a small sliding panel in the eastern wall
which, you suspect, may well be trapped. If you
decide to open it, tum to 34. If you don’t want to take
the chance, you leave and open a door in the Throne
Room which you haven't opened before; will it be:

The door in the west wall? Tum to 390
The central door in the north wall? Turn to 91
The westernmost door in the north

wall? Turn to 282

18
The vicious bite of the Vampire Bats produces continu-
ous bleeding which is hard to stop. Roll one dice; this
is the number of sTAMINA points you must lose as
soon as the combat ends, since blood keeps gushing
from the bite-marks (you cannot eat a meal during this
time, but you can drink a Potion, a liqueur or a
restorative to stop this extra damage from killing you)
Worse, you now have Vampiric Plague. Every time

19-20

you enter a room or passage with an undead monster
inside it (Zombie, Skeleton, Spectre, and so on; you
will be told when you meet an undead monster), you
must subtract 2 from both your Curent and your
Initial STAMINA as the plague weakens you over time.
You can only reverse this process, restoring your full
Initial stamina, if you find a Healer who is willing to
help you or if you have or can find Plague Antidote.
Now you can make for the fountain (turn to 47) or
back away from this room, fearing further hidden
attackers (turn to 3). -

19

Your deception works: the monsters here don’t react
to you immediately, though they will as soon as you
begin attacking them. You have one free action: this
can be casting a spell, striking one opponent (make a
note to subtract the appropriate number of STAMINA
points from the first opponent you must face in the
Throne Room), launching a special magic sword if you
can, or throwing in a Lava Sphere (if you have one).
Decide upon your free action, then turn to 3g to fight.

20
You find yourself in a barracks complex, where many
of Castle Argent’s brave defenders were once stationed
— before they and King Kraal fell, victims of the
terrifying Bone Demon and his War Dragons. The air
here is musty, the floor is covered in dust, and the area
appears long deserted. If you want to make a pro-
longed search, turn to 53. If you prefer to leave and
open the door opposite, not having done so before,

ZITK22

tun to 318. If you want to leave and open the
double doors at the far end of the entrance hall, turn
to 376

21
You have taken too long! The taloned nails of the
Zagor-Demon’s hands drive far into your body and
pierce your vital organs. You fall to your knees as the
monstrosity rises above you, ready to rip you apart
_. you were so close to victory, but your adventure
has ended just before you could truly tnumph!

22
‘Good information doesn’t come cheap, you know,’
Elranel grins. You must pay him 2 Gold Pieces for the
chance to talk about each of the following topics (he

will tell you about one subject free of charge if you
bribed him to talk):

Magical weapons in Castle Argent
Tower Chests and where to find
them Turn to 108
Healing (or Plague Antidote) Turn to 176
General information about this castle
level Turn to 392
How to get into the Great Tower
where Zagor lies

Turn to 81

Turn to 351

In each case, pay the Elf then turn to the paragraph
noted. You must subtract payment from your Treasure
for each choice, of course (Elranel accepts both Gold
Pieces and any valuable items of treasure you have
taken from the castle — except armour, which he

eerste ec
23-25

won't buy). Next, if you contemplate buying any
items Elranel has for sale, turn to 66. If you've com-
pleted your dealings with Elranel, turn to 239. If you
get greedy and attack him in the hope of taking his
excellent treasures, turn to 157

25

There’s a strange twist to these runes — what they are
is a trap laid against magical entry! You realize that,
had you cast an Open spell, you would have set off
the trap. This tells you that whoever is behind the
door is scared of wizards in particular! You can now
open the door normally (turn to 339) or decide to
leave and search elsewhere (turn to 376).

24

If you choose Rabellan or Reindrech, there is no
response; turn to 36 to explore elsewhere, If you tried
to communicate with Chanquin, turn to 323. If you
tried to communicate with Dorrick, turn to 308.

25
You have found the Wand of the Hawk, once wielded
by the greatest wizard at the court of the kings here!
With this wand, both your Current and Initial Magic
Points total is raised to 9. You can also add 1 to both
your Current and Initial sxitt; the wand gives you
magically enhanced speed of reaction. You may also
touch the wand to the hand weapon you use so that it
now counts as a magic weapon (some creatures can be
harmed only by magic weapons, so this is important!)
What is more, once you have crossed the wooden

26

stairway to the Great Tower above you, you gain a
bonus of 2 to your Attack Strength! Lastly, just once
during your adventure in Castle Argent you can call
upon the magic of this wand to help you by either
restoring your Current Magic Points tally to its full
Initial level or by restoring your Current sTAMINA to
its Full Initial level. You cannot use this one-off special
power while you are fighting, however, and be sure
not to call upon this power until you really need it, for
it will be granted only once. Gain 2 Luck points for
this wonderful find! Now tum to 52 to explore else-
where.

26

A very deep pit behind you now blocks your safe
passage southwards as you clamber painfully out
Unfortunately the entire length of the passage to the
south, as far as the Passage of Hawks, has opened up
as a second pit trap is belatedly triggered! Returning
that way won't be easy unless you can find some way
of resetting the pit trap; it’s too far for even a Jump
spell to get you across. So, you are now faced with a
wooden door to your right, another one directly
opposite on your left with a ceramic plaque showing a
silver crown on it, and ahead of you an east-west
passage in the distance. You should explore an area
you haven't entered before. Will you:

Turn to 55
Turn to 112

Open the door to your right?

Open the door to your left?

Make for the junction between the
two passages?

Turn to 43

a7

27
Sacks of mouldy flour, rotted cereals, smashed ceramic
pots and decayed food greet you everywhere, but you
also find some wax-sealed jars of preserved fruits and
garva, a highly nutritious root-vegetable from far Crab
Island. Add 4 to your Provisions, and gain 1 Luck
point for this fortunate find.

Unfortunately, your pleasure at this discovery is
marred when you hear a snuffling and squelching
sound coming from the passage. Whatever's causing
the noise is between you and the exit, so you move to
investigate. What you find appals and disgusts you: a
white lizard-like thing, two metres long, with leprous,
purple-ringed yellow blotches all over its skin. Worse
stil, the horror looks as if it has been stitched
together from the body-parts of various creatures
— including a human or two, judging from its
hand-like front paws. The gross thing hisses and
spits a gobbet of filthy yellow phlegm at you
Test your Skill if you are successful, you avoid the
missile, but if you fail, you take a faceful of filth
which leaves you choking and sick, and you must
subtract 2 from your Attack Strength during this
combat.

CORPSE LIZARD SKILL 7 STAMINA 9

if you win, you notice that the monster has left a slime
trail behind it as it moved. If you want to track the
route the monster took to get here, turn to 116. If you
would rather search elsewhere in the castle, tum to

376.

28

Behind this door lies an otherwise empty chamber
with two huge guards in it; they jerk stiffly out of
their frozen postures as you enter. They are Zombies
— of a kind. In addition to their blackened chain mail
and longswords, they wear ebony-black circlets on
their heads. You can attack them normally, or you can
try to make a specific strike at the head. If you wish to
do the latter in any Attack Round, you must subtract
3 from your Attack Strength, because it is hard to
target such a specific:small area. However, if you do
make a successful head strike, you knock off the circlet
and the Great Crown Zombie will lose 2 points from
its skits and 6 points from its stamina instantly,
Backed up in the doorway, you can fight the monsters
here one at a time.

SKILL STAMINA
First GREAT CROWN
ZOMBIE 8 12
Second GREAT CROWN
ZOMBIE 8 12

If you win, there is a door in the west wall opposite
you. You can open it (turn to 254), leave this room
and open the door with the grille outside (turn to 51),
or head back north along the passage outside to ex-
plore an area you haven't entered before {turn to 359).

29

29
The knight will fight to the death, neither showing nor
expecting any quarter. You will have to battle valiantly
to overcome him!

SIR DAVIAN SKILL 12 STAMINA 16

lf you win, the wooden chest contains only some
items of ordinary clothing and but a single Gold Piece,
and the oil-lamp has used almost all its fuel and is of
no use to you. However, the man’s ring is magical;
you must spend 1 Magic Point to be able to use it, but
if you do this it enables you to survive in the castle
without needing food or water, So, if you are told that
you must eat a meal, you can ignore this instruction in
future (eating meals will still restore your STAMINA,
however). If you are Braxus, and if you choose to
spend 1 Magic Point, you can use the knight’y magical
plate mail armour, which will add 2 to your Attack
Strength during combat! Now you must leave and
explore elsewhere; you can head south and then east-
wards (turn to 399) or northwards to the Passage of
Hawks (turn to 221),

530732

30

Along the west wall of this northwards-running pas-
sage a couple of bricks are clearly out of place and,
after a swift check, you find that many are loose.
Removing them, you discover a natrow crawlway
leading a few metres to the west beyond the portal
you have excavated, and at the end of it there is some
kind of wooden object in an end-chamber! However,
scrambling along this narrow passage is going to be
very difficult (except for Stubble!). If you want to
crawl along it, turn.to 86. If you prefer to continue
northwards, turn to 271

31

Zagor’s expression turns truly livid and he is clearly
about to unleash some very unpleasant magical attack
You really should get to close quarters with him! If
you prefer to stay at long distance, you can use a
catapult attack, if you haven’t done so before (turn to
449); otherwise you must try to get nearer to Zagor
by using a Potion of Flying if you have one (turn to
383), by racing up the steps to get to him (turn to
207), or by using a magical weapon to cleave a safe
path up the steps (turn to 133).

52
You need to be smart and eagle-eyed, and used to the
wicked ways of card-sharps and fixed dice, if you are
going to make money gambling in the seaboard tav-
erns of Sanctuary! Roll one dice: unless you are Anvar,
you may add 1 to the number rolled You may also
add 1 to the dice roll if you choose to spend a point of

33735

Luck. If the final total is 3 or less, you lose 2 Gold
Pieces, If the total is 4, you break even. If the total is 5
or higher, you win 4 Gold Pieces. Now you have little
time feft, so you must hurry; turn to 173.

You leave the looted guest chamber and turn to make
your way back west. Test your Spot Skill. If you are
successful, turn to 141. If you fail, turn to 376.

a4
Test your Skill. If you are successful, you slide the

panel across safely. If you fail, a poisoned blade flies
out and slashes deep into your wrist; you must deduct
2 points from your sTAMINA from the deep gash, and
a further 2 STAMINA points because of the poison; you
must also lose < point of Current and Initial sKILL
because your weapon hand is injured! Worse still, the
compartment behind the sliding panel is empty; what
was once hidden here has evidently been removed
Now you may leave and open a door in the Throne
Room which you haven't opened before; will it be:

The door in the west wall? Turn to 390
The central door in the north wall? Tum to g1
The westernmost door in the north

wail? Turn to 282

35
If the first Orc is invisible, you must deduct 2 from

your Attack Strength when fighting him. As you
confront the first Orc, the second Orc runs its sword
through the white-robed man and a pool of blood

36

spreads across the floor. Fight the wo Orcs sepa-
rately.

SKILL STAMINA
First GREAT ORC 8 7
Second GREAT ORC 8 7

If you win, the dying healer can help neither you nor
himself, although he manages to whisper to you that
he was forced to use his healing to help the Ores,
since the denizens of the castle have no healing skills
of their own. “There is another healer ... chained up
by Thulu, beyond the Throne Room ...’ and then he
is dead. A swift search here tums up only 1 Gold
Piece and some stale food (add 1 to your Provisions).
You leave the temple and head west along the passage-
way outside (turn to 357}.

36
Standing in the middle of the long passageway of the
west wing, the layout is clearly symmetrical. To the
north there is an unmarked door near the exit from the
west wing and, much further along to the west, another
door with the design of a plain, black shield and a
glowing sun etched upon it. To the south, there is an
unmarked door close to the exit, and a door some way
to the west bearing the image of a silver crown upon
it, To the east of you, double doors lead back to the
great passage known as the Bronze Stride; far to the
west, broken-down doors opened into the ruins of the
destroyed west tower, so you judge that little is to be
gained from entering there. You should try a door you
have not opened before (except the east doors which

37

return you to the Bronze Stride — you can open them
at any time). Will you open:

The east doors? Turn to 7
The plain door to the north? Tum to 274
The north door with the shield on it?) Tum to 124

The unmarked door to the south? Turn to 185
The south door with the crown
on it? Turn to 152

37
The runes of the onyx door betray the presence of

some form of magic pertaining to Elementals within
the chamber. This spells danger to you, so you should
expect to have to use powerful magic here. You also
know that Elementals cannot be harmed without a
magical weapon. If you don’t carry such a weapon,
you are very unlikely to be able to slay an Elemental
by spells alone, for they are strong. If you want to
open the onyx door, tum to 78. If you want to open
the door bearing the shield, turn to a59.

38

38

The great hearth in the north wall, with its hobs and
pots and roasting spits, tells you that this must be the
kitchen of the lower castle, though the fire has long
been extinguished. To your left there are some hatches
in the wall, beyond which is a barely lit chamber;
peering in, you see that it is a huge Feast Hall, and
you guess you could get into it through the double
doors in the passage outside. You can’t make out
much of what is inside the Feast Hall unless you use a
Light spell (if you can and wish to do this, turn to
279). You find an empty glass bottle in the kitchen,
but nothing else of any use to you, You decide to take
a chance on opening the door in the west wall of the
kitchen, and you find that beyond it lies a small,
Narrow passageway, off which you see a couple of
tiny boxrooms, that the domestic servants must have
occupied, and some large larder cupboards. It’s highly
unlikely that anything edible has been left after all
these years, but, if you want to make a search of them,
turn to 29. Otherwise, you return to the doorway of
the entrance hall to this castle level and choose another
area to explore; tum to 376.

ei |

39
Thulu remains seated on his throne, but the other

monsters swarm to attack you. You must fight them
together, in pairs, in the order shown below: Orcs,
then Great Ores, then Mutant Orcs, then Great Crown
Zombies. You can neither rest nor perform any action,
such as drinking a Potion or eating a meal, between
fighting each pair of enemies.

SKILL STAMINA
First ORC 6
Second ORC

First GREAT ORC
Second GREAT ORC

6
7
7
Third GREAT ORC 7
Fourth GREAT ORC 7

7

7

First MUTANT ORC
Second MUTANT ORC

First GREAT CROWN

ome AO AO VM

ZOMBIE & a2
Second GREAT CROWN
ZOMBIE 8 12

When you are fighting the Great Crown Zombies, you
have one special option: you can attempt to knock the
ebony circlet from a Zombie's head, rather than striking
normally. If you do this, you receive a penalty of 3 to
your Attack Strength; but if you succeed in striking
che Zombie, it loses 2 points from its sxitL and 6
Doints from its STAMINA instantly. [f you win this
rerociously difficult combat, turn to 82.

40-41

40
As you walk into the triangle, tendrils of magical force
reach into your body, chilling and numbing you. Lose §
STAMINA points! There is a sudden scream from the back
of the cavern, and materializing before your eyes is the
ghostly form of a wizard, torment written large across
his face and flickering flames dancing at his fingertips. If
you want to attack him, turn to 114. If you want to talk,
and you think you know his name, convert his name toa
number using the code A = 1,B = 2,C = 3,andsoon
Add together the numbers corresponding to the letters
in his name, double the total, then turn to the paragraph
with that number (if a name is not the second word in
that paragraph, you have guessed wrongly; retum to
this paragraph and choose another action). If you want
to try to bribe him in some way not to attack you, tum
to 371. If you want to flee, turn to 335

41

You are standing in the middle of the great castle
passageway known as the Bronze Stride. The walls
here are covered in bronze plaques on which the faces
of great heroes of Amarillian history are etched. To
the south is a door which you cannot open, To the
north, there is a door which has a lacquered black
surface with gold etching and details, Adjacent to it is
a door with four shallow depressions in it. Far to the
east, there is a set of double doors which give admit-
tance to the east wing of the castle; likewise, far to the
west of you is a set of double doors which give entry
to the west wing of the castle. You must open a door
which you haven't previously opened. Will it be:

42-44
The black and gold door? Turn to 332
The other door to the north? Tum to 216
The doors to the east wing? Turn to 361
The doors to the west wing? Tum to 248

42
Roll one dice. If you roll 1~3, turn to 388; if you roll
4-6, turn to 203.

45
You are standing in the middle of an east-west passage-

way, and the stink of Orcs is very strong here! To the
east, you can see two doors, one to your left and
another one, further along, to your right. The left-
hand door is, unmistakably, the entrance to an Orc
barracks; here the smell is strongest. To the west, the
passageway swings round to the north. Explore an
area you haven't entered before. Will you now:

Open the door to the Orc barracks? Tum to 204
Open the further door to the east? Turn to 67
Head west and then northwards? Turn to 368

After many days at sea, your vessel is within five
kilometres of Tower Island itself. Even from that dis-
tance you can see the great towered mass of Castle
Argent rising into the leaden skies just beyond the
shoreline. The galley can go no further in the shallow
bay, so you thank the crew who brought you here and
take your belongings into the stout rowing boat being
lowered for you. Carannus shakes your hand firmly

45-47

and says, ‘We head for the River Geld and, hopefully,
a greeting from my own people — those few who
remain in the lands upstream. We will come back for
you when the moon is new, hoping for your safe
return — and news of a triumph. If you are not
waiting,’ he pauses, ‘we will come once more, when
the moon is new over the world. Ali our hopes ride
with you’ You leave and row for the shore; turn to

75-

45
The touch of the horror transforms you instantly into

a Plague Bearer yourself, doomed to wander in Zagor’s
service for ever, transforming other poor wretches into
diseased wanderers. Your adventure ends here!

46

The Dark Knight has a magnificent, magical, two-
handed sword, which you can take and use. This gives
a bonus of 1 to your Attack Strength in all combats;
against any Dragon — or against Zagor himself — it
gives a bonus of 2 to your Attack Strength! Gain 2
LuCK points for this find. Leaving this chamber, you
set off north for the crystalline doors. Turn to 135.

47
As you stride towards the fountain, the hedge of

thomy, hard-stemmed plants strains forward to strike
at you! If you are wearing metal armour (chain mail or
plate mail), you suffer no damage from this, but if you
are not wearing such armour you must deduct 2
points from your sTAMINA through cuts and abrasions.
48

If you are still alive, you force a way through to the
fountain. The waters of the fountain are clear and pure.
Drinking from it restores 4 points of stamina. If you
have any empty glass bottles, you may fill them here:
each full bottle will restore 4 points of lost sTAMINA
when you drink it, which you can do at any time
except during combat. However, the healing magic of
the water fades beyond this chamber; once you have
crossed a stairway, the water will no longer be magical,
and drinking it from a bottle will not heal you Also,
as you turn to leave; the fountain’s waters run dry, so
you cannot return here for further healing draughts.
As you leave, there’s a door directly opposite you as
you look north; if you want to open it, having not
done so before, tum to 196. If you want to make your
way further westwards to the end of the long passage
outside, turn to 357. If you want to search elsewhere,
turn to 3

48
The Mutant is down, but it isn’t finished. As it collapses
backwards, its huge belly writhes and squirms as
flailing tentacles become detached from its body and
thrash wildly around on the floor. A deep mimbling
arises from the monster. What will you do? Will
you:

Turn to 76

Run away as fast as you can?

Perform some action (drinking a
Potion, etc.}?

Carry on hitting the monster with a
weapon?

Tur to 101

Tum to 156

49-50

9
Test your Skill. If you are successful, you manage a
bow shot which snags your rope round a dragon’s jaw
arch; a swift tug tells you it will take your weight, so
turn to 63. If you fail, the rope is not attached securely
and it would be folly to climb it; tum to 180 and
choose another way of getting up to the platform.

50
You had better overcome this Plague Zombie swiftly;
if it strikes you, you will contract a terrible malady
indeed!

PLAGUE ZOMBIE SKILL 7 STAMINA 6

If you win, you can take the silver ring; it is a Ring of
Truesight, allowing you to see through certain illusions
(make a note of this paragraph number on your Adven-
ture Sheet. However, if the Plague Zombie struck you
even once, you now have Undead Plague. This means
that you may yourself change into one of the Undead
at any time. Each time you enter a room you haven't
explored before, you must roll two dice. If you roll a
total of 11 or 12, you will become transformed, and
your adventure will end in a fate literally worse than
death. Only a Healer, or the use of Plague Antidote,
will cure you of this. Now, you may leave this room
or open one of the other caskets which you have as
yet left unexplored, so will you:

Leave and explore elsewhere? Tum to 399
Open the casket with the silver staff? Turn to 309
Open the casket with the wooden box? Turn to 80

51-52

51
Stairs descend into the dank, unlit depths of the fetid
dungeons that comprise the castle’s jail. This area is
unlit, so if you do not have a lantern {or use a Light
spell) in the jail, you must subtract 2 from your Attack
Strength in any combats while in the jails, and you
may fall foul of traps you cannot see If you don't
wish to hazard an entry here, or if you have finished
your search here, head back south to the end of the
passageway to search elsewhere (turn to 357). Other-
wise, descending the.stairs you can see three doors to
the right and two more to the left, spaced along a
seemingly endless passage that stretches ahead of you.
Explore an area you havent entered before; will you
open:
The first door on your right?
The second door on your right?
The third door on your right?
Either of the left-hand doors?

Turn to 158
Turn to 184
Turn to 281
Turn to 118

52
Standing in the middle of the main passage of the east
wing, you can see six doors. Two large doors in the
north wall both bear the symbols of dragon’s heads,

53-34

and they do not appear to be part of the original
castle design. To the west, double doors give access to
the Bronze Stride. To the south there are two doors,
one of which hus a large, crudely painted sign which
reads: ‘DO NOT ENTER! Lastly, there is a door at
the far east end of the passage. You should open a
door which you have not opened previously (unless
you are returning to the Bronze Stride through the
west door, which you can do at any time). Will you
open:

The door to the west?

The left-hand door in the north wall?

The right-hand door in the north

wall? Turn to 345

The door with the warning sign? Tum to 221

The other southern door? Tum to 137

The door to the east? Turn to 166

Turn to 7
Tum to 95

53
You must eat a meal during your lengthy search,
opening the doors to a warren of individual dormitory
rooms and living chambers. You don’t find anything
of value, but you must Test your Skill. If you are
successful, turn to 132. If you fail, turn to 227.

54
A howling crescendo of magical force is whipped up
inside the Throne Room! You regain 5 STAMINA
points from the powerful vortex of magic within the
room. You can see a treasure chest behind Zagor’s
throne. If you want to open it, turn to 340. [fF you
don’t want to do this, turn to 148.

55-56

55

As you are about to open this plain wooden door, you
notice that it is just ajar and you hear Orcish squeals
and a deep grunt coming from behind it, Peeking
cautiously in, you see an Orc poking the point of a
sharp wooden spear through the bars of a small cage
to torment the creature inside it. You've never seen
anything like the imprisoned animal before: it re-
sembles nothing so much as an over-sized piglet, with
iron plates along its back and legs. It has a thick, long
pink snout which the hateful Orc is jabbing at. The
poor thing grunts and whimpers in fear of the Orc. If
you want to attack the Orc, tum to 88. If you decide
not to, turn to 280.

56
In the markets and shops of the peaceable town of
Sanctuary you can buy many things, but your most
likely purchases may well be:

Chain mail armour 7 Gold Pieces
Longbow and arrows 4 Gold Pieces
Crossbow and arrows 4 Gold Pieces
Potion of Stamina 7 Gold Pieces
Magic Ring 5 Gold Pieces
Vial of Plague Antidote 6 Gold Pieces
Empty glass bottle 1 Gold Piece

Rope (10 metres long) 1 Gold Piece

Flask of herbal liqueur 3 Gold Pieces
Potion of Fire Resistance 5 Gold Pieces

If you wear chain mail armour, this does not add to
your Attack Strength during combats, but it does

57

provide some protection against certain hazards you
may encounter during your adventures, With either
type of bow, you will be instructed when you can use
it in later paragraphs. The Potion of Stamina, when

allows you to regain stamina points equal to
one-half your initial score (round fractions up}. The
Magic Ring stores 1 Magic Point. A vial of Plague
Antidote will cure one (and only onel) form of plague
which you may be unfortunate enough to pick up
during your exploration of dire Castle Argent, restor-
ing all losses from Initial (but not Current!) stamina
due to the effects of plague. The flask of herbal liqueur
is refreshing and invigorating: when you drink it, you
regain 4 STAMINA points. The Potion of Stamina, the
liqueur and the Potion of Pire Resistance can be drunk
at any time, except during a combat. Once drunk, the
effects of the latter last for the duration of the next
combat in which you are attacked by fire (such as
Dragon breath or a Fireball spell); during this time,
you can halve the stamina loss such attacks do to
you {rounding fractions up). When you have decided
what to buy, amend your Adventure Sheet accordingly.
Now, you can consult the king's sages if you want to
{turn to 154), try to earn some extra gold if you
haven't tried this before (turn to 206), or leave Sanctu-
ary by ship (turn to azo).

57
Remstar's shade slowly dissipates with a great sigh of
peace, as the wizard is released from years of wretched
confinement, Searching the strange cavern, you find a
Tower Chest and, in a leather pouch, 5 Gold Pieces

58-59

and two ornate and very unusual playing cards. Their
backs are uppermost, and they bear a strange elliptical
design — a snake swallowing its own tail — in red on a
black background. If you want to tum over the first of
these cards, turn to 175. If you want to turn over the
second of these cards, turn to 245. If you would rather
not turn over either of them, you can explore the
cavern at the end of the passage beyond, if you have
not already done so (turn to 10), or return to the main
cavern you entered by (turn to 186).

You find nothing of value in the course of your
thorough search (you must eat a meal), but you manage
to cut your hand badly on some broken glass equip-
ment; lose 2 STAMINA points. Do you now want to
open the south door (turn to 365) or make for the
main passage outside (tum to 280)?

59
You move forward to attack. You must fight the
thieves two at a time; once you have killed the first or

60

second thief, the third one will step into his place to
fight you.

SKILL STAMINA
First THIEF 7 6
Second THIEF 7 6
Third THIEF 8 6

If you win, you use the keys on one of the bodies to
open the chest, which contains 2 Gold Pieces and a
small package of peppered cheese, wrapped in pale-
green leaves (add 2-to your Provisions). There is a
lockpick here which you can use for opening Tower
Chests. If you do use this lockpick, you are allowed to
Test your Skill when opening Tower Chests and trying
to avoid the traps in them (this saves LUCK points and
so is very useful). You can also take the magical torch
if you wish to do so, though you must spend 1 Magic
Point to be able to use it; the torch will cast a constant
light for you in future whenever you wish it to do so
(so it is equivalent to a lantern), Leaving this room,
you can either head for the crawlway that goes west
and then north, if you haven't been there before (turn
to 355), or return to the main castle (tum to 3).

60

You stumble and fall, banging your head on stone;
deduct 4 points from your sTAMINA. If you are still
alive, you pick up the body again and stagger on. Roll
two dice and multiply the number rolled by ten; add
this many seconds to the time elapsed (a Potion of
Flying does not reduce this time). You are so, so close
now, but will you triumph? Tum to 14.

61-62

61

Seated round the table are many of King Kraal’s
nobles and courtiers — or their remains, to be more
accurate, Silent, skeletal forms with scraps of ruined
robes and doublets form an eerie phalanx in the silent,
dark vastness of the hall. In the north wall some
serving hatches reveal a kitchen beyond which, you
guess, you will be able to enter through the first door
along to the north in the passage outside the hall. The
silverware here has long been ransacked, but you find
a pair of ornately decorated pottery bowls which look
valuable, so you take them. The hall is large and the
search takes time, so you must eat a meal. There is an
odd, disturbing atmosphere about the dead here. You
feel as if something of their spirits may remain in this
troubled place. If you wish to spend a Magic Point
trying to contact any spirits here, turn to 162. If you
want to set out for the kitchens, not having explored
there already, turn to 38. Otherwise, you leave and
search elsewhere; turn to 376.

62

Ruby, emerald, sapphire, topaz .. . Rest! You place the

gems in the depressions in the given order: ruby first,

63

emerald next, then sapphire, then topaz. The door to
the Chamber of Meditation slides open silently. Inside
is an ornate chair, stuffed with cushions, which looks
incredibly inviting. You can avail yourself of the magic
of the Chamber of Meditation only once during your
adventure. This can be now, if you wish, or you can
come here at any later time when you are in the Bronze
Stride (when you return to paragraph 41 to make a fresh
choice of an area to explore). After spending an hour or
so dozing comfortably in the safety of the chair, you
must eat a meal; when you do, your Current STAMINA
will retum to its full, initial level! After you have rested,
you should turn to 41 and explore elsewhere.

63

You manage to get half-way up the rope when there
is a sudden gust of wind from the vortex and you are
shaken like a leaf in an autumn gale. Test your Skill
adding 1 to the total rolled if you are wearing chain
mail armour or 2 if you are wearing plate mail armour.
If you are successful, you hang on for dear life. If you
fail, you are flung to the ground below and must lose
LO STAMINA points! If you are still alive, your rope
has broken free and you must find another way of
ascending, so will you:

Use a Potion of Flying (if you have
one)? Turn to 364

Climb one of the rope-ladders? Tum to 272
Enter the swirling vortex, hoping to

be carried upwards? Tum to 334
Decline to climb up, and challenge

the Dragon from where you are? Tum to 346

64-65

64

Leaving the barracks behind, you head southwards
along the passageway. To your left is an onyx-inlaid
door; if you haven't opened it before and wish to do
so now, turn to 78. At the end of this passage lies the
Passage of Hawks, with a door directly opposite the
corridor you're walking along; if you want to open
that door, turn to 275. Otherwise, you turn east at the
end of this southern passage and make for the mid-
way point of the Passage of Hawks, to choose some-
where else to search; turn to 5.

There is a faded brass plaque on this door which reads
faintly: "PLEASE KNOCK BEFORE ENTERING’
Below this is a brass door-knocker fashioned in the
shape of a Pegasus’ head, with a lucky horseshoe
nailed underneath for good measure! You're not sure
what to make of all this — what if there are guards or
monsters inside using this paraphernalia as a trap? If
you want to knock on the door, tum to 384. If you

66

decide to open it without knocking, turn to go. If you
prefer to search elsewhere, turn to 218.

. 66
Elranel can offer you the following items:

Potion of Stamina 8 Gold Pieces
Potion of Luck 5 Gold Pieces
Vial of Orcbane 5 Gold Pieces
Scroll of the spell Fast Hands 4 Gold Pieces
Scroll of the spell Fireball 7 Gold Pieces
Magic Ring 5 Gold Pieces

‘All an absolute bargain,’ he says sadly. ‘My wives and
children will surely starve to death if I’m forced to sell
at these prices. By all the gods and goddesses, I’m too
soft-hearted a soul, truly 1 am.’ The Potion of Stamina,
when drunk, restores lost stAMINA equal to half your
Initial score (round fractions up). The Potion of Luck,
when drunk, restores 1-3 lost Luck points (roll one
dice and round fractions up). Either Potion can be
drunk at any time, except during a combat, The
Orcbane can be applied to any edged weapon (axe,
sword or dagger) before you fight Ores and, for the
first six Attack Rounds, any hit you achieve will cause
2 extra points of STAMINA (this damage works on any

67

type of Ore, including their chieftains, and Mutant
Orcs tool), If you decide to buy anything, adjust your
Adventure Sheet accordingly; Elranel accepts either Gold
Pieces or any valuable treasures you have taken from
Castle Argent (except for armour, which is of no use
to him). Next, if you want to buy some information,
turn to 22. If you've completed your dealings with
Elranel, turn to 239, If you get greedy and attack him,
in the hope of taking his excellent treasures, turn to

157.

67

You have entered the rooms of the Argent Knights,
the elite defenders of the castle. This network of
rooms, though very extensive, has been thoroughly
pillaged by the Ores. However, most of the doors still
bear the shield designs of the Argent Knights, together
with their names, If you are Sallazar, turn to 395. If
there is a specific knight whose name you know and
whose room you want to find, turn to 117. Otherwise,
even making a search of a few rooms will be time-
consuming; if you want to do this, turn to 159. If not,
turn to 43 and explore elsewhere.

68-69

68

Behind the door, alone in a very long, narrow chamber,
an old crone sits at a spinning wheel, absent-mindedly
toying with strands of oddly shimmering silver thread
She is clad all in dusty, filthy black, and there are
cobwebs in her hair. Her eyes are opaque, afflicted
with cataracts, but she sees you - you have no doubt
of that. A black cat beside her hisses as you enter, The
room is full of junk, bric-a-brac, a total muddle of
rubbish and dusty things you can hardly make out in
the gloom. The hag cackles as you stand uncertainly in
the doorway. ‘Well, dearie, what is it you want with
old Grizzell, eh? Speak up!’ If you want to attack the
hag, turn to 2go0. If you prefer to talk to her, turn to
109. If you simply want to leave here, go back to the
passage and make for the iron door, turn to 233.

69
The wily brute rubs a ring on his left hand and disappears,
only to reappear a split second later, at the top of the
tower, standing on the wooden platform! Straining his
muscles and sinews, the huge monster is trying to wheel
the ballista — a huge, spear-flinging device — around to
face you! One strike from such a weapon would inflict
enormous damage on you, perhaps even kill you
outright. If you want to flee, Groo] will lob a rock at you
as you go; turn to 377. If you want to continue fighting,
you have the following choices: you can fire a bow or
catapult at Grool, or cast spells at him (turn to 96 to do
either), make for the stone steps and try to climb up on to
the platform (tum to 123), or use a Potion of Flying (if
you have one) to reach the platform at once (turn to 172).

70-72

70
You use the jail keys to enter a huge cell-block
complex. Along a corridor stretching far into the
distance scores of cells, each with its own locked door,
are ranged on either side. Checking them all will
clearly take a long time. If you want to search a
handful of them in the hope of finding something, turn
to 380. If you want to make a time-consuming search
of all the cells here, tum to 34a. If you decide not to
lose time here but to try the next cell-block along, not
having done so before, tum to azo, If you would
rather search somewhere else, turn to §1.

71
You remember that the three key elements of magical
wards and locks are the spider's web, which is a
locking element; the circle. which is a protective
symbol; and the triangle, which is a magical trap set
upon the door. What you have in front of you now is
a complex symbol and it suggests that a powerful
wizard must have inscribed it. If you want to smash
down this door, turn to 253. If you want to use an
Open spell, turn to 8g, If you don’t want to risk the
effects of the trap, turn to 3 and search elsewhere.

72
Looking south along this passageway, you can see a
single door to the west before the passageway tums
east, back towards the room where you entered this
level of the castle, If you want to open the door, not
having done so before, turn to 345. If you want to
follow the passageway back to where you entered this

73-74

castle level, to explore an area you haven't entered
yet, turn to 399. If you want fo retum east to the mid-
way point of the Passage of Hawks, turn to 5. If you
decide to press on westwards, you can open the
south-facing door (turn to 275) or stride out along the
northern passage opposite it, if you have not been
there before (turn to 385)

73

Opening a door with axe-blows etched deep into the
wood, you find yourself in the old Hall of Dwarfs of
the Castle, where an elite phalanx of dwarfish warriors
once served the kings. The Orcs have trashed this
room very thoroughly; littered bones around the floor
and skeletons suspended from the oak ceiling beams
show what happened to the Dwarfs here. Test your
Spot Skill Gf you are Stubble, you must add 1 to the
total rolled; you are so furious at what you see here
that it isn’t easy to concentrate). If you are successful,
turn to 122, If you fail, you leave this room; you can
head along either the western passage outside (turn to
399) or the northem passage (tum to 139).

74
Now you are face to face with the greatest threat

Amarillia has ever known! There will be no mercy, no
surrender; it’s you or the Demon-thing. Magical forces
whirl around in the Great Tower and dispel any Magic
Screen spells (both yours and his); this is a straight
fight to the finish. Each Attack Round, you must
decide how you plan to attack the Zagor-Demon (by
weapon, by spell, with acid if you have ik, etc,), You

74

cannot drink any Potions or eat Provisions (though, if
you have been taught how, you may be able to cast a
certain form of healing spell upon yourself), Then
work out Attack Strengths for yourself and Zagor for
each Attack Round. The stamina score shown below
for Zagor is his basic sTAMINA score; you should
adjust this for the number of Silver Daggers you
possess, any damage you may have done to Zagor by
attacks from a distance (using acid, etc.), and whether
Zagor gained any extra STAMINA points while you
were ascending the steps

ZAGOR-DEMON

You should also consult the table below, which shows
the attacks the Zagor-Demon will use, and the damage
they will do if he hits you

SKILL 16 STAMINA 20

Attack Round Attack and Damage

1st Thunderbolt spell: you lose 7
STAMINA points

and Fireball spell: you lose 5 STAMINA
points

3rd Life Drain spell: drains 1 point
from your SxILL and 2 points
from your STAMINA

4th and 5th Poisoned dagger: you lose i point

from your STAMINA, plus 2
extra STAMINA points due to
poison

Taloned fist: you lose 2 STAMINA
points

6th onwards

If you reduce the Zagor-Demon to 2 or fewer STAMINA

75

points without killing it, tum to 264. If you defeat the
Zagor-Demon, turn to 54.

75
You stand on the shoreline of Tower Island. Before

you is a long, straight stone road leading up to the
gates of Castle Argent itself, but on either side of that
road are many ruined buildings, razed by Orcs and
Zombies in the war against the Bone Demon. In the
shattered ruins, little or nothing of any value or use to
you is likely to be left after the destruction here. There
may be some remnants of the Demon's armies here,
scrounging what they can. However, if you want to
explore the ruins, you may do so. Will you now:

Turn to 369
Turn to 332
Tum to 192

Explore ruins to the west?
Explore ruins to the east?
Head straight for Castle Argent?

ne eee"
76-77

76

The huge body explodes, splashing you with acid as
you run like one possessed through the doorway,
Deduct 4 points from your sTAMINA! If your're still
alive, the room you just left — when you dare to look
back — is covered in slime and acid, and everything
inside it is dissolving as the room fills with acrid
smoke; you will not be able to find anything of use
here now. You set off for the main passage to search
elsewhere; turn to 280

77
You force open the door and peer along a tunnel that
is lit by the dim glow of distant flames, After some
fifty metres you come to a great chasm which drops
into fiery depths below. These are the Heartfires, a
source of great magical energies once used by the
king’s wizards in Castle Argent. On the far side of the
chasm is a broad, low-roofed cavern strewn with
boulders; leading across to that cavern is a frail-looking
rope bridge with a wooden platform. Examining it,
you see that a metal winch apparatus is used to move
the platform, with ropes used to pull the traveller from
one side of the chasm to the other. Obviously the
rope bridge must be fire-resistant or it would not still
be here, However, the winch is rusted and seems to be
jammed, If you can and wish to use a Jump spell to
cross here, turn to 295. Alternatively, you could oil
the winch using lantern oil so that the platform could
be used to ferry you across (if you do this, but you
have no spare lantern ail, you will not be able to use
your lantern in dark areas unless you get some more

78

oil to replenish it). If you want to do this, turn to 295.
If you want to take a run-up and make a heroic leap
across the chasm, which is some six metres wide at its
narrowest point, tum to 136. If you decide not to
cross the chasm, turn to 357 to explore elsewhere.

98
The first thing you notice in this chamber is the set of
interlocking circles drawn on the floor; next, the many
blue and yellow wall-hangings and a pair of huge,
gilded copper urns set in the corners af its east wall
To the north, there is a doorway just round the corner
from you. The air here is heady with a strange, musky
perfume. Within the central circle of the magical set,
something is beginning to materialize in the air as a faint
shimmering, It grows stronger, denser, higher, as you
watch it, forming into a whirlwind-like vortex several
metres tall, lf you decide to flee, turn to g7. If you choose
to stay, you can perform two actions (such as eating some
provisions, drinking a Potion, casting a spell, etc.) before
whatever it is that is materializing here is fully formed.
Decide which two actions to take. IF you want to spend
one action trying to open the door to the north, tum to
143. Otherwise, ready yourself to ight and turn to 190

79-B0

79
Opening the door will release an ingenious mechanical

trap which threatens to decapitate you with its slicing
blades! You can bypass the trap if you have a lackpick,
if you use an Open spell, or if you have a thief
hireling with you. If you can use any of these means,
turn to 307. If you cannot, then you must either open
the door and risk suffering the damage the trap may
do to you (tum to 146) or decide to leave this door
unopened and explore elsewhere (turn to 52).

8o

You open the casket gently, whispering the hope that
the priest is resting well in death, and you take the
wooden box from his fingers. A feeling of peacefulness
comes over you: you feel refreshed. Regain 2 STAMINA
points and 1 Luck point. The box itself feels as if in
some way it might help you regain lost strength and
vitality, and you open it to find four gems inside, a
sapphire, a topaz, an emerald and a ruby. Now will
you:

Leave and explore elsewhere? Turn to 399
Open the casket with the silver staff? Turn to 309
Open the casket with the silver ring? Turn to 285

81-82

81
‘There’s an Orc-slaying sword around here somewhere,
used to be used by one of the knights. | think it’s
pretty close to here, only a couple of rooms away. It
can be used by anyone, | think.’ If you are Anvar, turn
to 257. If you are Braxus, turn to 311, Otherwise,
return to 22.

82
The monstrously bloated figure of Thulu the chieftain
tises unsteadily from its throne. It looks down at you
unbelievingly, then howls in fury and screams abuse at
you. Frothing at the mouth, the monster whirls its
mighty axe around in a circle, its arms and hands shaking
uncontrollably. Fortunately for you, the monster takes a
while to get itself back under contro] before it can attack
you, This gives you time to perform two free actions,
such as drinking a Potion or herbal! liqueur, casting a spell,
etc, (but not any free attacks by weapon or by spell, since
these will make Thulu fight at once). Decide what these

actions will be, and then you must fight for your life.
THULU SKILL 9 STAMINA 17

lf you win, turn to 125.

83

83

Mungus the jailer was condemned to be fed to the
War Dragons, years ago, for incompetence; what was
left of him afterwards was stitched together by some
demented wizard, using the body parts from equally
powerful and evil creatures. Mungus is the size of a
half-Ogre, more or less, well over two metres tall and
nearly as broad. Livid, purple bruising runs along the
stitching lines of his forearms and round his neck, and
the undead monster hefts a huge maul in his shovel-
sized hands. Mungus may be slow and lacking in
combat skill, but he is very powerful and strong (if he
hits you, you must deduct 3 points from your STAMINA
rather than the usual 2) and very hard to destroy.

MUNGUS SKILL 7 STAMINA 19

If you win, you search the jailer’s room; in a wooden
chest you find 6 Gold Pieces and a suit of magical
chain mail! Wearing this adds 1 to your Attack
Strength. Gain 1 Lucx point for this valuable find
(unless you are Sallazar, who cannot wear this armour)
If you can find a merchant to sell this chain mail to, he
will pay you 12 Gold Pieces for it. You also find six
large iron spikes which you hope will come in useful.
If you wish to leave the jails now, you head south
along the passageway outside to explore elsewhere
(turn to 357). If you want to explore the jails further,
will you:

Open the door to your right? Turn to 281
Open the door to your left? Tum to 158
Open either of the doors facing you? Tum to 118

84-86

34

You hear Orcish voices in the distance, and they are
getting louder! Frantically you look around for some
way out of the trap. If you have at least 1 Magic Point
left, you must spend it now as you strain all your
senses and intuition to search for some means of
escape; turn to 305. If you do not have a Magic Point,
turn to 366

. 85

Make a note that, when you have taken 500 seconds
or longer on your journey, you must note down the
number of your paragraph then turn at once to 219
For now, you carry the body down the steps and
through the arch to the beam of light, which deposits
you on the Dragon’s stone platform. This takes 50
seconds, Turn to 161.

86
As you make your way along the passage on hands
and knees, little side-doors open half-way along and
from each doorway a tiny, imp-like creature armed
with a long skewering pin stabs at you! You can’t back
out and you are forced to fight. If you are Anvar, you
must deduct 4 from your Attack Strength here (being
big, you find it hard to move around in this cramped
passage!). If you are Braxus, you must deduct 3 from
your Attack Strength here. If you are Sallazar, you
must deduct 2 from your Attack Strength here. If you
are Stubble, you can fight normally. Finally, if you are
wearing plate mail armour, its bulk is a disadvantage

87

here and you must deduct 1 further point from your
Attack Strength. The spells Fireball or Thunderbolt
cannot be used here because the area is so cramped.
Fight the Imps together; they are small, and a successful
hit from one of them will cause you to lose only 1
point from your STAMINA.

SKILL STAMINA
First CASTLE IMP 5 4
Second CASTLE IMP 5 4

If you win, you manage to reach the chamber beyond
the crawlway. Within the chamber is a Tower Chest.
Taking its contents, you return to the main north
secret passage and continue northwards; tum to 271

‘

<a

. 87
‘It’s Elranel Blurctoak! Blimey, ‘e’s the one wot got into
the arboretum and nicked the Chancellor's green
shoots!’ the young thief blurts out.

The EIf grins modestly. ‘Very nice magical plants they
were, too. Traded them for a good few gold, I can tell
you. That is, if you are planning to talk to me rather
than attempt any violence.’ If you want to talk to this
strange Elf, turn to g (unless you are Stubble, in which
case turn to 315). If you want to fight him — he does
have a sack of treasure, after all — tum to 257.

sce TC _T_EG_________s+bs

88-90

88
The Orc turns to meet you as you move in to attack
Its wooden spear is a poor weapon so, if it strikes you,
you will lose only 1 point from your STAMINA

ORC SKILL 6

If you win, you open the cage to free the whimpering
prisoner. It rubs its snout against your leg happily and
makes a soft noise almost like the purring of a cat
Then it gives out a more distressed noise, which rather
alarms you; other Orcs could hear it, and they may
not be as easy to kill as the one you have just
despatched. Trying to hush the creature just makes it
noisier. You guess that it may be hungry, but it turns
its snout up at an offer of Provisions. If you have
some iron spikes, tum to 374. If you haven't any of
these, turn to 358

STAMINA ©

89 .
An Open spell here will remove only one of the three
parts of the magical symbol. You need two spells to
remove two elements, and three spells to remove the
complex glyph entirely. Decide now which elements
(web, circle, triangle) you want to remove, then tum
to 182

90

‘It’s extremely rude to come calling without first knock-
ing on the door!’ the occupant of the chamber yells at
you as you stride in. You're astonished to encounter a
white-haired old man, in flowing brown and cinnamon
robes which surely mark him out as being from the

9t-92

Plains of Cabaal, standing before a veritable treasure-
trove — you can see armour, food, weapons and more!
If you decide to attack him, turn to 267. If you want
to ask what he has for sale, tum to 194, but you must
make a note that, because of your rudeness in just
walking straight in, the merchant will charge you 1
Gold Piece extra for every item shown as costing 4
Gold Pieces or more.

91

You enter a short hallway which is bare of any
decoration and which has a single door at its northern
end. You stride ahead and throw it open: you find
yourself standing in a broad and almost endless corri-
dor — and the door behind you slams shut! You will
not be able to open it now, either by magic or by
force, Turn it to 41.

92

Standing at the crossroads, you see that the passage-
way going east has no doors. To the north, there is
one door on either side of the passageway, which
terminates in another east-west passage. To the south,
there are two doors in the east side of the passage,
which then tums westwards, back to the area where
you entered this castle level. If you want to return
south and west to where you have entered this castle
level, turn to 399. To the west, the Passage of Hawks
continues for some distance; if you want to head this
way, turn to 5. Otherwise, you must open a door you
haven’t opened before; will this be:

93-95

Either of the doors to the north? Tum to 389
The first door to the south? Turn to 363
The second door to the south? Turn to 73

93
Compute Attack Strengths as normal. If you have the

higher Attack Strength, Zagor loses 2 sTAMINA points.
If he has the higher Attack Strength, his spell drains 1
point from your Current sk1LL and 2 points from your
Current STAMINA, and your Arrow misses him. Turn

to 299 to decide a course of action for the next Attack
Round.

94

‘Remstar, | just want to talk,’ you begin, but the Dark
EIf’s face contorts in utter fury; a mixture of hate and
fear plays across his features. “You are an ally of
Remstar!’ he screams. ‘I keep his shade at bay and he
sends an assassin to slay me!’ The Dark Elf completes
his spell-casting and sends a ball of fre flying across
the room at you. Deduct 4 points from your sTAMINA!
If you are still alive, you can either ight (turn to 258)
or flee (turn to 198).

95
Behind this door with the Dragon symbol on it, walls

have been knocked down to create a huge single
chamber. It is filled with desiccated and shrivelled,
egg-like objects, but they are grotesquely large. The
equally shrivelled shapes of baby Dragons inside the
eggs show what they once were. You have entered

96-97

one of the Bone Demon’s old War Dragon hatcheries!
It looks as if everything here perished and withered
years ago, but, if you want to explore this massive
area, turn to 325. If you would rather search elsewhere
in the east wing, tum to 52.

96

You have two Attack Rounds to finish Grool off
before he succeeds in getting the ballista firing at you.
These are free attacks; he is still wheeling the machine
into place. If you kil] the Ogre, turn to 2§2. If you do
not, he will fire a five-metre long spear straight at you;
Test Grool's Skill. If he is successful, he hits you; lose 10
STAMINA points! If he fails, the huge spear misses you
~ just. You've got to flee (tum to 377), make a run for
the stone steps (turn to 123), or use a Potion of Flying,
if you can, to get to Grool (turn to 172).

97
Standing in the middle of this passageway, you should

open a door you haven't tried before, or alternatively
you should return south and east to the mid-point of
the Passage of Hawks, if you've searched this whole
area. So, will you:

Open the onyx-runed door? Turn to 78
Open the door with the shield inlay? Turn to 259
Open the door to the south, opposite

this passage? Turn to 275
March off south, then east, along the
Passage of Hawks? Turn to 5

98-99

98

Shortly after dawn, when you are stretching your legs
on the deck, there is a sudden chuming of the seas on
the starboard side of the vessel. You draw your
weapon but, just as you are looking over the side of
the ship, the true danger swoops down from the
foggy skies above. A great white reptile, many metres
long, with ragged-edged, horny claws, a great mouth
and a spiny, barbed tail is heading straight for you.
You are surprised, and the monster's claws knock you
down; deduct 3 points from your STAMINA, Now you
must fight for your life!

FOG WYVERN SKILL 10 STAMINA 16

If you win, the captain and crew help you to your feet
and bring food and healing draughts of a herbal brew
to you (restore your STAMINA to its Initial level) as
other men begin the work of getting the huge reptile’s
carcass off the deck. Carannus looks unhappily at the
monster, “That’s not a natural monster,’ he says. ‘I
know these Wyverns, and that tail’s malformed. Look
at that crooked jaw and the way the bones of the
spine protrude through its back. There’s some bad
magic at work here.’ The Centaur’s eyes harden and he
turns to help his men throw the carcass into the sea.
Turn to 44.

99
The chamber of the Hellhorn guards is nothing more
than a befouled, hideous abattoir: gnawed bones and
chunks of rotted flesh lie everywhere. Forcing back
your disgust, you search for anything that may be of

{Loo

value to you when, lo and behold, you find a small
copper urn which has a secret compartment in the
bottom — containing 2 Magic Rings! Gain 1 Luck
point; but there is nothing else here you might wish to
take. There is, however, a door at the western end of
the north wall here; it is unmarked and quite ordinary
in appearance, but who knows what kind of horror
may be a neighbour to the Hellhorns? If you want to
open it, turn to 68. If you prefer to leave and go north
to the great wrought-iron door, turn to 197.

100
The bedraggled thieves are very glad that you don’t
want to fight them; they have a hard enough time just
surviving, stealing enough food to keep them alive
and staying away from the Orcs and Zombies of the
castle. The thieves warn you of the Castle Imps: they
have a lair to the west of the thieves’ hideout. On the
main floor above, they tell you that a feast hall and
kitchens lie due west of the double doors at the end of
the entrance hall, and that north of that area is a
smithy and an armourer’s. West of the library, there
are a wizard’s chambers and a strange indoor garden
with a small magical fountain. At the end of the north
passageway, opposite the wizard’s chambers, there is a
crazy merchant, Cohsturre, from whom the thieves
sometimes buy food in return for purloined valuables
North of the indoor garden, in turn, there is a temple
which is guarded by undead monsters, To get to the
next floor of the castle, you leave the library and head
west and then north to a guardroom with a west-
facing door; a north-facing door there leads down to

101

the jail-dungeon (they shiver at the mention of this).
Finally, the youngest of the thieves boldly offers to
accompany you a little further into the castle, hoping
thereby to get some extra food or equipment for
himself and his impoverished friends. If you want to
consider hiring him, turn to 160. If you want to leave
and take the crawlway to the west, having not done
so before, turn to 355. If you want to return to the
main castle, turn to 3

101

The huge body explodes and splashes you with acid;
deduct 6 points from your stamina! If you're still
alive, the room is covered in slime and acid, and
everything in it is dissolving as the room fills with
acrid smoke. You will not be able to find anything of
use there now. You head for the main passage to
search elsewhere; turn to 280,

102-103

102
Test your Luck. If you are Lucky, you lose only 1
STAMINA point from the fall; surely the heavens have
smiled upon you! Gain 2 Luck points, If you are
Unlucky, lose 6 sTAMINA points — but even that is
better than you might have expected, so gain 1 LUCK
point anyway. You take another 30 seconds to get
through the Dragon’s chamber. To head onwards, turn
to 286

103
There is a tripwire trap behind the doors, but fortu-
nately you see it and step over safely. You now stand
in the great entrance hall of Castle Argent. Flanking
the long walls here are pennants and shields of the
provinces of Amarillia, but many have been defaced or
broken and flung to the stony floor, Irregularly placed
wall-torches bum dimly and provide a low light,
enough to see by, but they also suggest there must be
living creatures herein, and this spells danger. There ts
a door to either side of this entrance, and from behind
one of them you can make out the grunts and guttural
speech of Orcs! They will surely be simple guards,
with no gold or items of value, so it’s pointless
wasting your strength on them. You edge forward as
quietly as you can. Before you, there is a small door to
your left and one to your right, and a pair of larger
doors directly ahead. Will you now open:

The right-hand door? Tum to 20
The left-hand door? Tum to 318
The large doors ahead? Tum to 376

104-106

104
Test your Skill, adding 3 to the number rolled (the little
beast is very, very fast). If you are successful, turn to
193. If you fail, tum to 163.

105
Test your Luck while forcing this door open. If you are
Lucky, you open the door safely. If you are Unlucky,
you trigger a vicious poisoned dart trap and must
deduct 4 points from your stamina, The spartan and
barely furnished room beyond is that of the castle's
old master-armourer, and the trap used to deter cor-
wardly Orcish soldiery fom entering. You find intact
a suit of chain mail armour; this gives no Attack
Strength bonuses, but there may be times when it will
be useful to you! Leaving here, you can make for the
door further along this eastern passage, if you haven't
done so before (turn to 269), or else retrace your steps
south and search elsewhere (turn to 376).

106
You gather 15 Gold Pieces — and a fat lot of use they
are to you when you're about to confront Zagor! Turn
to 262.

107-109

107
You push open a rickety door with Orcish graffiti
daubed in blood round the door frame and a wretched
scene unfolds before your eyes, In a once-pleasant
guest-chamber everything has been vandalized and
daubed with long-dried blood and filth. You see a
couple of broken skeletons the size of Dwarfs among
the wreckage; in a leather pouch on one of the dwarven
skeletons is a shrivelled piece of parchment. Unfolding
it carefully, you find that the script is in the dwarfish
tongue; you cannot read this unless you are Stubble or
Sallazar (Sallazar must spend 1 Magic Point to decode
it by magical means), If you cannot read the writing,
you must search elsewhere; turn to 218. If you can
read the writing, turn to 333.

108

‘Hmm. Well, of course, they've appeared here just
recently. I’ve only been able to get at one myself.’
Elranel flourishes a Silver Dagger; if you want to
buy this, it will cost you 6 Gold Pieces! Whether
you buy or not, Elranel continues: There’s certainly
one in the treasury behind the Throne Room, and
Grool, the monstrous Ogre in the east wing, he has
one too. I believe there is one in the west wing,
guarded by the greatest of the Hellhorns — vile
things, they are. Beware their whips and poison!’
Return to 22.

109
The hag isn’t interested in any sort of parleying or
smal] talk. She is interested in whether you have any

110-111

Potions, however; she can use these to wet the spindle
she works at, and they help her create her dark magic.
If you are prepared to give up any Potions, she will
give you the following in exchange (one item per
Potion}: a Magic Ring, a vial of Plague Antidote, or a
scroll containing a Magic Screen spell, If you want
to trade with the hag, amend your Adventure Sheet
accordingly then leave and head for the great iron
door to the north; turn to 197. If you don’t want to
trade, or if you have no Potions to trade with, tum
(0 233

110

Unfortunately, the mimes were specifically set to be
activated by any spell cast at the door. They explode
in a white-hot arc of electrical energy. Deduct 4 points
from your STAMINA — or 6 points if you are wearing
metal armour, since this conducts the electricity into
your body! From behind the door you can hear some-
one or something scrabbling and screaming threats.
You have no time to eat some provisions or drink a
Potion here, so in your weakened state you may well
choose to flee, returning west and south (turn to 376).
If you decide to throw the door open and confront
what lies behind it, turn to 339,

111
You stand looking up and down the long east—west
Passage of Hawks, with several doors and passages
leading from it. You decide to make for the mid-way
point of the passage and take careful stock of every-
thing you can see. Turn to 5.

112-114

112
Opening the door, you find yourself in a ransacked
room with another silvered door in the west wall.
Standing in the middle of room, carrying a sack, is a
leather-clad ELf. He’s tall and slim, and he reacts swiftly
to your presence, drawing a long dagger dripping
with an oily green liquid He has a strange, crooked
smile, and a livid red scar runs down the right side of
his face. He wears a plain grey cloak which shimmers
oddly and, as you look at him, it seems as if his body
is swimming in and out of focus. If you have a thief
hireling with you, turn to 87, If you haven't, turn to

140.

113
If you have already opened the east door here, you
know that there is nothing there for you now, so you
march on to the crystalline doors to the north; turn to
135. If you have not opened the eastern door before,
turn to 165.

114

The wizard-ghost will cast a spell from his fiery hands
in each of the first two Attack Rounds. If he has the
higher Attack Strength, the power of his spell will
make you lose 4 points of sTAMINA. If you have the
higher Attack Strength, his spell is deflected and you
suffer no damage. Thereafter, he fights by touching
you with his numb, chilling hands and you will lose z
STAMINA points each time he strikes you.

WIZARD-GHOST SKILL 9 STAMINA 10

115-116

If you win, you can search the strange cavern. You
find a Tower Chest and in a leather pouch you find 5
Gold Pieces and two ornate and very unusual playing
cards. Their backs are uppermost, and they bear a
strange elliptical design — a snake swallowing its own
tail — in red on a black background. If you want to
turn over the first of these cards, turn to 147. If you
want to turn over the second card, turn to 245. If you
prefer not to examine either, you can leave and explore
the cavern at the end of the passage beyond if you
have not already done so (turn to 10} or head back to
the main cavern (turn to 186).

115

Did you cast a Magic Screen spell before entering
Zagor's Tower? If you did not, Zagor's spell drains 1
point from your Current skiLL and 2 points from your
Current sTAMINA; turn to 299 to decide what to do in
the next Attack Round. If you did cast this spell before
entering, your spell and Zagor’s cancelled each other's
out; turn to 31.

116
The slimy trail of the Corpse Lizard heads north
outside the doors to the kitchens and leads to the
point at which the passage turns east. There is only
one door along this passage and it is on your left -
but the slime trail goes in a straight line to the end of
the passage and stops at the wall! There must be a
secret door here, and indeed you find one, flush with
the end of the passage. However, since lizards aren't
usually able to close doors behind them, this suggests

117-118

that something — or someone — intelligent must have
despatched the lizard and closed the door behind it.
Opening the secret door may well lead you to a smart
and probably powerful enemy. If you decide to open
the secret door, tum to 172 If you prefer to search
elsewhere, you head back west and south; turn to 376.

117

Convert the name of the knight into a number using
the code A = 1, B = 2, C = 3 and so on. Add the
numbers together, multiply the total by six, then tum
to the paragraph with that number (if the knight's
name isn’t the first word you read, you are incorrect
and you must turn to 159).

118
The two doors here are very sturdily constructed of iron-
shod darkwood and have heavy locks, You cannot batter

Tig-121

them down, and an Open spell will not get you past
them; they have been enchanted to resist such magic.
You can only open them with a set of jailer’s keys. If you
possess such a set of keys, you know how many are in the
bunch. If you want to open the first door along, turn to
the paragraph with the same number as the number of
keys you have. If you want to open the second door
along, multiply the number of keys by three, then turn to
the paragraph with that number. If you do not have any
jailer’s keys, turn to 51 and search elsewhere

11g
If you spend 1 Magic Point, you can use this fluid to
create a Potion of Fire Resistance. You will be able to
dnnk this at any time, except during combat. The effects
of the Potion last for one combat, You can halve the
damage of any ftery attack — Dragon breath or magic
such as a Fireball spell — during this combat (rounding
fractions up). Now turn to 52 to explore elsewhere in
the east wing, or tum to 7 to return to the Bronze Stride.

120
Flowing chevrons burst from the staff and fly as
deadly magical arrowheads towards the Champion,
impaling him on a string of magical barbs! He loses 8
STAMINA points! Return to 233 to continue the fight,
amending the Champion’s stAMINA score accordingly

121
There is only one way to reach Zagor from here: enter the
white light beam. Stepping into the beam, you are lifted
upwards and are able to step out on to a circular ledge

L22—123

where there is a door inscribed with a huge letter Z before
you. If you have a Ring of Truesight, you know the
number of the paragraph where you found it; multiply
that number by seven, then turn to the paragraph with
that number. If you do not have this ring, all you can dois
open the door here, but you had better take every
possible precaution before entering. Make use of every-
thing you have; there is but one enemy left. If you want
to use an Open spell to open the door here, turrrto 3.21; if
you just want to open the door normally, turn to

304

122
You find a pane! in the east wall which is not quite
flush with the main stonework: a secret door! If you
want to open it, turn to 164. If you decide not to, you
leave and can follow either the west passage (turn to
399) or the north passage (turn to 139).

123
Rushing to the stone steps, you will be able to evade
the ballista, since the Ogre can’t point it at you
However, now he will try to drop rocks on your head
from a pile on the top of the platform, It will take
three Attack Rounds for you to get to the top of the
stone steps (four Attack Rounds if you are Stubble). In
each Attack Round you must Test Grool’s Skill; if he is
successful, he catches you with a rock and you must
lose 2 STAMINA points, If he fails, the rock sails
harmlessly past your head. You have no time to do
anything except race up the steps, but, if you are still
alive after Grool’s rock-hurling exploits, tum to 172.

eS §=—

pao :
TefAa .
is i"

We

124

124
The black shield looks forbidding, even with the
symbol of the warm sun on it; as you push open the
door, you find a mighty enemy ready and waiting
Clad in black plate mail with the identical image of the
sun on his breastplate, the creature that was once the
Grand Templar of the king’s court raises a huge,
demonic axe to fight you. His mind destroyed by
magic and now become a pawn of the Demon, the
Templar has changed into a Chaos Champion, and you
will not be able to run from him. When the Chaos
Champion wins an Attack Round, you must roll one
dice: if you roll a 6, his demonic axe has caused you
special damage, in additon to losing the normal 2
points from your sTAMINA. Roll again, on the table
below, to determine what that extra damage is.

CHAOS CHAMPION SKILL 10 STAMINA 15

Dice Roll Fxtra Damage
1—2 You lose 1 extra STAMINA point

3 You lose 1 STAMINA point from Initial
score

4 You lose 1 skILt point from Initial
score

5 You lose 1 Magic Point from Initial
score

6 Frenzy! (see below)

IF the Chaos Champion goes into a frenzy, he loses 3
STAMINA points himself, but you must lose two dice
worth of sTAMINA points! If you manage to overcome
this terrifying enemy, turn to 372.
125-127

125
The body of the hideous chieftain lies at your feet
You have triumphed; gain 1 Luck point. A great
reward is surely yours — somewhere! You find some
scraps of edible food on the banqueting table in this
place, though almost everything here is rotten (add 3
to your Provisions). Looking around and ignoring the
pathetic and mindless minions since they offer no
threat to you, you observe four doors in the chamber:
three are along the north wall, and one is in the north
comer of the west wall. Will you open:

The door in the west wall? Turn to 3go0
The far left door in the north wall? Turn to 282
The central door in the north wall? Turn to 91
The far right door in the north wall? Turn to 244.

126
The Stone Colossus swings its club; each time it hits
you, you must roll one dice; on a 5 or 6, you lose 3
points of STAMINA rather than the usual 2. If, at any
time when you roll dice to determine the Attack
Strength for the Colossus, you roll a total of 11 or 22,
turn at once to 170.

STONE COLOSSUS SKILL 8 STAMINA 18

If you win, turn to 293.

127
‘Ah, you must be that excellent merchant of great
repute, Three-Eyes Haag!’ you say, offering a hand in
friendly greeting. The strange old man’s face breaks

128-129

into a warm smile and he replies, “You've heard of me,
then? Do they still speak of me in far Cabaal?’ You
have no idea whether they do or not, but you flatter
him, assuring him how well thought of he is and how
pleased you are to meet him. At this, the merchant
begins to take a shine to you and is pleased to do
business. If you spend at least 8 Gold Pieces at his
store, he will give you a small green crystal pendant in
the shape of a key. ‘Don’t know what it’s good for,
but I’m sure it opens something round here,’ he says
offhandedly, Tum to 194 to look over what he has for
sale.

128

Inside the hole, a thick and syrupy liquid oozes over
the ground; you broke the vial containing it with an
ill-timed knife-thrust. Bad luck! Now, if there is a
knight whose name you know and whose sword you
seek, turn to 117, Otherwise, turn to 43 to explore else-
where

129
You decide to take a risk and tell the man that you
have come to destroy the evil that is ruling the
castle. He looks first confused, then despairing, and
blurts out that your quest is hopeless. He is Sir
L3O—131

Davian, one of the last Argent Knights, and it is all
he can do to keep the Orcs at bay and delay his
own death. He breaks down and admits that he had
been afflicted with magical fear by one of the War
Dragons which assaulted the castle during the wars,
and that he literally fainted with fear after fleeing —
and found himself here. Now he hides, in fear for his
life. If you are Braxus, turn to 178, If you are any
other character, turn to 250.

- 1530
Once the laboratory of the alchemists of Castle Argent,
this place has been transformed into one of unspeakable
horror, It is littered with the preserved parts of mutant
monsters and strangely designed equipment. A palp-
able sense of evil lingers in the air, though all is silent,
save for a rhythmic slurping noise coming from under
a door in the south wall, Taking a step or two closer
towards that noise, the hairs on the nape of your neck
tise in apprehension. Will you:

Search this laboratory more
thoroughly?

Open the south door?

Leave and return to the northwards-
leading passage?

Tum to 58
Tum to 365

Tum to 280

131
At the bottom of the stairs, the secret passageway
runs for a long way eastwards then tums north, Tesf
your Spot Skill here, if you have a lantern or a Light
spell (if you have neither, tum to 271), If you are
successful, tum to 30. If you fail, turn to 272.

132-134

132
Standing in one large room and thinking about
where to go next, you hear voices. They are very
faint but they're coming from below the stone floor,
and you even manage to make out a word or two
as you kneel down and put one ear to the floor:
‘Down the crawlway _.. treasure there, sure of it, a
chest ... trap ... dangerous.’ Searching around for a
loose flagstone, you can’t find one, so there’s no
way of discovering who the whispering denizens of
the under-castle may be, though they sounded
human. Tum to 227.

133
You strike the base of the steps with your magical
weapon, and a resounding crash reverberates around
the Throne Room. A blue line of magical force snakes
upwards from where you stand as far as Zagor’s feet
at the top of the steps. You have lost some of the
magic of your weapon now, but only temporarily:
subtract 1 from your Attack Strength for the next two
Attack Rounds, As Zagor stands, looking stupefied,
caught off balance, you race to the top of the steps to
assault him! Turn to 74.

134
About half-way along this north-facing passageway
there is a lone single door to the west, then the
passage meets the long east-west Passage of Hawks, If
you want to return to the south to explore an area
you haven't yet entered, turn to 399. If you want to
open the door here, not having done so before, turn to

ee ee

135-136

343. If you want to make for the Passage of Hawks
ahead of you, tum to 4111.

135
These doors can be opened only if you possess both
sets of Dragonbone Keys. If you have these. you
know how many keys you have: turn to the paragraph
with that number. If you don't have both sets of keys,
you must return to the Bronze Stride and search for
them. You may re-enter the east or west wings even if
you have been there-before, though you should not
open again any door that you've opened already
inside either wing. Turn to 41 to choose where to

go.

136
Trying to jump here is a major risk! Test your Skill
adding 2 to the number rolled on the dice: if you are
wearing chain mail armour, add an extra 1; if you are
wearing plate mail, add an extra 2. If you are Stubble,
you must add an extra 2 to the number rolled. If you
fail, you meet a swift death, burned to a cinder at the

137

bottom of the chasm far below. If you are successful,
you land, sprawling across the floor, and hit a boulder
Deduct 2 points from your sTAMINA, but at least
youre across, Turn to 295.

137
The room behind this plain door is empty but, as you
peer in, small hands snatch at your backpack and try
to wrench something away from you! You must rol!
dice to determine Attack Strengths for yourself and
the tiny, imp-like Grabber (its sKitt is 9). If you have
the higher Attack Strength, you can despatch the
squealing Grabber with a single blow. If it has the
higher Attack Strength, it will steal a magical item
from you and fly away with it, too swiftly for you to
pursue. Its first preference will be a Magic Ring, if you
have one, next a Potion if you do not have a Magic
Ring. then a scroll if you have neither. If you have
more than one Potion or scroll, it will steal randomly
(you may decide which you lose here). If you have
none of these items, the frustrated Grabber will simply
curse you ~ and you must subtract 1 from your Altack
Strength for your next three combats! Now turn to 52
to explore elsewhere.

138-139

138

The undead guardians of the temple are Zombies, as
you suspected, but they are wearing strange copper
circlets round their heads and are far more dangerous
than usual. You can attack them in the normal way or
you can try to make a specific strike at the head. If you
wish to do the latter, you must subtract 3 from your
Attack Strength. However, if you do make a successful
head strike, knocking off the circlet, the Crown Zombie
will lose 2 points from its skiLt and 4 points from its
STAMINA instantly. You can fight the Crown Zombies
one at a time as you rush into the temple.

SKILL STAMINA
First CROWN ZOMBIE 8 10
Second CROWN ZOMBIE 8 10

If you win, you hear a rumpus coming from behind
the doors the Crown Zombies were guarding Orcish
voices are raised in alarm, you can also hear a man’s
terrified voice. The Orcs are clearly preparing to fight.
You have three choices. You can attack at once,
opening one of the doors; turn to 283, Alternatively
you can perform one action (such as forcing some
Provisions down or quaffing a Potion), then open the
door to attack the Orcs; tum to 362. Lastly, you can
decide that another fight straight away is just too
dangerous and turn on your heel to search somewhere
else, down to the far eastern end of the passageway
outside (turn to 3).

139
Looking northwards along this passage, you see a

ee

140

door to your right, a few metres before the passage
reaches a crossroads. At the crossroads, the east-facing
passage has no doors, but you can see several to the
north and the west. You should explore an area you
haven't entered before, so will you:

Open the door before the crossroads? Turn to 363
Head on northwards to the

crossroads? Turn to 92
Go back south and west, to where

you entered this level of the

castle? ; Turn to 399

140
The Elf looks you up and down, and doesn’t seem the
least bit afraid of you. If you want to talk to him, turn
to 315. If you decide to attack him for the bag of
treasure he is carrying, tum to 157.

ig I-13

141
You spot a secret door at the end of the passage, flush
with the east wall. If you want to open it, having not
done so before, tum to 171. If you would rather not,
you will have to head back west and south to explore
elsewhere; tum to 376.

142

You retrieve a very simple, sheer black orb, no bigger
than a goose egg, from the small compartment behind
the secret panel. The Orb of the Templar can be
activated by a simple effort of will, at any time. When
you use it, you can increase your Current sKiLt (which
may exceed your Initial skiLt, due to the power of this
magic). In total, the Orb has enough magic for you to
gain 3 extra, temporary SKILL points in this way (you
can use these all at once or at different mes). Each
temporary increase in sxiLi will last for the duration
of one combat only, and it will also help if you have
to Test your Skill during a lengthy combat. Gain 1
LUCK point for making this find. Now, you can search
elsewhere in the west wing (hun to 36) or make for
the Bronze Stride (turn to 7).

143
The circle nearest the northern door glows brightly

and, as you touch the wrought-iron door-handle on
the north door, a violent shock of electricity jolts
through your body! Deduct 4 points from your
STAMINA. The door will not open either. Now you
have one action left before you must fight (turn to
190); otherwise you must flee (turn to 97).

144-146

144
This door bears a simple magical rune but it has no
visible lock. So will you:

Cast an Open spell (if you can)? Turn to 203
Beat the door down? Turn to 42
Search elsewhere? Turn to 3

145
The little creature rushes from the room; it is very

swift, so you won't be able to follow it. Will you open
the door opposite with the ceramic plaque, if you
haven't already done so (turn to 112), or make for the
end of the north passage (turn to 43)?

146
As you open the door, a pair of heavy iron blades
whirl out from the frame towards you. One, at knee
height, stabs forward; the other is placed to strike you
across the back of the head. You lose 5 STAMINA
points (unless you are Stubble, who loses only 2
STAMINA points since the head-high trap misses him).

447-148

If you are still alive, you have found your way into
Moranes’s Exploratorium. The famed Moranes was an
meorrigible creator of unusual weapons and strange
machines and devices. Some of them were hopelessly
meffective, of course, but examining his sketches and
models for giant catapults and ballistas you can see
that, when he got things right, he must have been a
great help to the defences of Castle Argent. Clearly,
exploring here may be dangerous if the trap on the
door is anything to go by. If you want to tinker with
Moranes’s models and examine his notes and designs,
turn to 307. If you decide that this is too hazardous a
procedure, turn to 52 and explore elsewhere.

147
This is a card from Zagor’s own magical pack, lost to

him when he was transported here! Turning it over,
you see the image of a silver dagger etched on its
face. This counts as a Silver Dagger, which you can
use to weaken the monster when you encounter him.
Gain 1 Luck point for this find. If you now want to
examine the face of the second card, tum to 245. If
you prefer not to examine it, you can leave and
explore the cavern at the end of the passage beyond,
if you have not already done so (turn to 10), or make
your way back to the main cavern you entered by
‘turn to 186).

148
You are wise not to tarry — your quest was to destroy
the Zagor-Demon, not to get gold for yourself! Gain 1
Luck point, Turn to 235.

149-150

149
‘Zuqurulm, I —’ But he has already stopped dead in his

tracks.

‘My true name was known only to my acolyte!’ he
says. You explain how you saved this acolyte from
the Great Orcs in the basement of the castle. Zuqurulm
is overjoyed; he had thought his student long dead.
‘Then you have saved both of us. My debt to you is
doubled. Friend, now you have slain all the vile ser-
vants here, we have some time. There is a special spell [
can teach you which may help you prevail at last,’
You rest and meditate with Zuqurulm as he teaches
you the Stamina Spell. This costs 1 Magic Point to
cast; when you cast it, you regain lost sTAMINA points
equal to half your Initial total (round fractions up). You
can cast this spell at any time, except during combat
Now, if you are Braxus or Sallazar, turn to 232. If you
are Anvar or Stubble, turn to 211.

150
The onyx staff has four symbols on it: lion, chevron,
goblet and star. if you have spent a Magic Point to
activate the staff (or if you do so now), you may be

151

able to use it to deal the Hellhom Champion a mortal
blow. If you know which symbol can defeat it, and if
you have also found a heraldic design on a chest with
that symbol on it, you know how many symbols were
on that chest, and what colour they were. Convert the
letters of the colour into numbers using the code A =
1,B = 2,C = 3, etc. Add the numbers together then
multiply that total by the number of the symbols you
found on the chest. (Thus, for example, if you think
that the star defeats the Champion, and you had found
five white stars inscribed on a chest, you would tum
to paragraph 325: WHITE = 23 + 8 + 9 + 20 +
5 = 65, and you would multiply that by 5.) Tum to
the paragraph you have calculated; if the name of the
symbol isn’t the second word you read in that para-
graph, you are wrong and should return to paragraph
223 to continue fighting. You should also do this if
you have the staff but do not know which symbol
defeats the Champion.

151
As you look closely at the painting, the face of the
wizard changes swiftly and dramatically! His kindly
features seem to swim out of focus and mutate into
the livid, red face of some horrific Demon from your
worst nightmares! It is Zagor himself, and his eyes
move as if searching for something. They meet yours
and the visage breaks into a crooked grimace of
hatred. Words form with your mind, a telepathic
scream from the enraged monster: “You dare challenge
me?’ Lose 1 Luck point! Filled with fear, you rush out
of this room and press on northwards. Tum to 92.

~~

152-154

152
You open the door quietly and gaze into a majestic
and beautiful chamber. A huge circular table dominates
the room, with thrones seated al! round it; there must
be fifty or so. In the huge hole in the middle of the
table is a crystalline dome from which a faint green
flow emanates. There is a glowing image of some
object or other inside that dome, but you cannot make
out what it is from the doorway — not least because
the twenty-metre-long dozing reptile curled round the
tabletop is between you and the dome! This must be a
young Dragon, you guess, but any Dragon is a formid-
able enemy. On the other hand, it does have a pile of
treasure clasped between its forepaws, and its scales
look just a little out of condition. lf you want to attack
it, you have one free action (striking it with a weapon,
attacking with a spell, shooting with a bow, etc);
subtract the damage you do from the staMINA of the
Dragon when you fight it; turn to 276 to fight. If you
decide to leave well alone, turn to 36 to explore else-
where.

153
The face of a Demon shines out from the card! You
are cursed: you must deduct 1 from your Attack
Strength and also lose 1 point from your Luck. It's
time to fight; tum to 299.

154
Sanctuary has its fair share of dubious fortune-tellers
and charlatans, but the king’s querulous old sage Yon-
dale is said to have the Sight, so you make your way

ee
155

to his chambers. When you enter, the ancient-looking
wizard-sage is in animated discussion with a merchant
who is bearing a small wooden casket, He asks you
what you want and, when you ask for his help, he
snaps at you, ‘This wretch wants 5 Gold Pieces for a
mere grumnet of Barrabangian shimmerlizard tails! It’s
an outrage! Pay him for me, and I'l! tell you something
of use to you’ If you are willing to pay the 5 Gold
Pieces, turn to 382. If you won't (or can’t) pay, you
can buy some equipment (tum to 56), try to make
some extra money (tum to 206), or make for the ship
to take you out of Sanctuary (turn to 220).

155

At the point where the corridor turns east, there is a
door opposite you in the north wall. There is also a
small door along the eastern passageway, again on the
north wall. If you want to open the door at the point
where the passage furns, turn to 1o5. If you want to
open the door further along the eastern passage, turn
to 269

156-158

156

Since you are standing close to the monster when it
explodes, you are drenched in the corrosive acid and
filth which bursts out; lose 12 STAMINA points! What's
more, the huge carcass is still churning and writhing. If
you want to pick up the wooden chest here, you must
Test your Skill. If you are successful, turn to 199; if you
fail, turn to 387. IF you would rather leave at once,
turn to 280,

157

Elranel is a very dangerous enemy. Unless you have a
Ring of Truesight, you must deduct 1 from your
Attack Strength, since his magical cloak makes him
hard to hit. Also he has a poisoned weapon; if he strikes
you, you will lose 1 point from your sTAMINA because
of his dagger blow — but you must also lose 2 extra
points from your sTAMINA through the effects of
poison. His first six attacks will use poison; after that,
the poison runs out and his hits will cause you only 1
point of damage. Lastly, if you have a thief hireling
with you, he will not help you fight here; instead, he
runs away.

ELRANEL THE THIEF SKILL 22 STAMINA 13

[IF you reduce his sTAMINA to 4 points or below
without killing him outright, turn to 239. If you kill
him, turn to 195.

158
You have entered the jailer’s rest-room where a huge
stone statue stands guard. The monster has been

LENE

159-160

crafted in the shape of a demon, with stony wings and
homs set above its humanoid body. It has huge,
clubbed hands and a network of spikes on its head and
along its neck and spine, and it reaches forward to
gfasp you as soon as you enter; you have no chance
to flee here. This is going to be a tough combat
against a powerful enemy; your only good fortune is
that, unlike many of its kind, this huge Golem is
vulnerable to all weapons, so you can fight it nor-
mally

GIANT STONE GOLEM SKILLQ STAMINA 16

If you win, you find a set of keys to the jails; there are
70 keys altogether, Leaving the chamber with these in
your hand, will you try to open:

The next door on your right?
The last door on your right?
Either of the left-hand doors?

Turn to 184
Turn to 281
Tum to 118

159
Searching through the chambers of the Argent Knights,
you must eat a meal, Test your Spot Skill If you are
successful, turn to 237. If you fail, you find nothing
unusual, so turn to 43 and search elsewhere

160
If you want to hire the young thief, you must pay him
4 Gold Pieces. In return, he can help you in the
following ways. First, he can pick any locks you come
across and bypass any traps, so you will not have to
take damage from traps on doors; but Tower Chests

161-162

you must open yourself, and the thief cannot open
doors with magical locks or runes of them. Second, the
little thief can help you fight, so while he is with you
you can add 2 to your Attack Strength. However,
once the thief has helped you with three combats,
that’s as much of a risk as he is prepared to take, and
he will then leave (keep a note of the number of
combats he helps you with, if you hire him). You can
choose which combats he will help you with — they
do not have to be the first three — but the thief will
not fight any Dragon, nor will he enter the Throne
Room on the floor above or cross any wooden stair-
way. Decide whether to hire him; if you do, make a
note to tum to 316 when the thief leaves you (after
three combats), Now you set off for the main body of
the castle, taking the thief’s advice not to risk a
confrontation with the vicious little Imps to the west.
Tum to 3,

161 L

If you have taken a Potion of Flying, you can now
swoop down without taking any time; turn to 286.
Otherwise, you have a choice: you can climb down
one of the rope-ladders hanging from the platform
(tum to 326) or you can pray to the gods and
goddesses of Amarillia to protect you and jump the
twenty-five metres to the ground (turn to 102).

162
The magical energy makes the hail shimmer out of
focus for a split second, then the ghostly form of a
young knight stands before you. He is uncertain, but

ee

163

when you assure him as to the nature of your quest he
seems more willing to help you. He tells you that you
may find help in the temple, due west of here, and that
opposite the temple there is another source of healing
to be had from a magical fountain — though there is
one of far greater power above. He warns you that in
the Great Hall, on the next floor above, the great Orc
chieftain, Thulu, holds court over a mutated and
undead entourage of fierce Orcs and monsters, but he
adds that Thulu guards a powerful magical sword! The
Great Hall has black, wrought-iron doors and is unmis-
takable, He warns you not to enter the dungeon-prison
of the castle; there is a very strong Golem guard
there, though there is also some lost magic of consider-
able interest to any wizards sealed up there. He also
says that you should try to find the crazy old merchant
(known as Three-Eyes Haag because of the eyeglass
he always carries), for he may have equipment or
magic for sale. Incredibly, the old man has boarded
himself up in the castle and has managed to survive all
these years. ‘And beware the wings, east and west,’
the young man adds as his ghostly form fades from
sight, ‘beware Grool, Keeper of the ...’ Then he is
gone. It’s time to search elsewhere, for you can hear
more rats approaching; turn to 376.

163
The little animal leaps at you and scrabbles at your
armour with its claws and snout. Great rents appear in
your armour as the beast gobbles up the metal! Your
metal armour is ruined (though, fortunately, you still
wear your leather armour beneath it). Trying to fend it

164-165

off, you see that the defensive iron plates on the
creature’s back and legs have grown thicker. Dodging
your blow, the animal races for the door. Tum to 145.

164
A small, cramped, secret chamber here is filled with
toul and musty air, but it also has some valuable items
There is a suit of Dwarf-sized plate mail armour; only
Stubble can wear this, and he gains a bonus of 1 to his
Attack Strength in combat when wearing it. Further,
there is a lead casket which contains a lumpy, elliptical,
somewhat egg-like object that measures about 20
centimetres from end to end. This is one of the fabled
Lava Spheres of the Dwarfs of Grundia, and it can be a
devastating weapon. If you throw it into an area (a
room or passage) where you have to fight, it will
explode in a ball of flames which harms all your
opponents in the combat; roll one dice for each oppo-
nent separately to determine the number of stAMINA
points he will lose (this will not harm Zagor or any
fire-breathing creature, however). You must spend 1
Magic Point to activate the Lava Sphere. Gain 1 Luck
point for finding it. You find a one-way door in the
north wall; if you want to open it, turn to 363;
otherwise you may leave here and take the west
passage (turn to 399) or the north passage (tum to

139}

165
A sudden intuition tells you that a powerful magical
weapon you seek lies behind this eastern door! You
must have it Turn to 314.

166-167

166

You are standing in the circular ground-floor chamber
of the east tower. The tower rises high above you; a
set of stone steps leads up to a wooden platform on
which you can see a huge wooden war machine
pointing away from you, out through a portal at the
top of the tower. There is also what is unmistakably a
Tower Chest on the platform. However, the guardian
of the tower is not just going to let you take it! Grool,
the gigantic, one-eyed, mutant Ogre, hefts a club that
must be the size of you, and he growls hatefully as
you enter. If you want to take the treasure he has, you
will have to kill this huge brute. If you don’t want to
fight him, preferring to flee, tum to 377. Otherwise,
do your best! If you have an onyx wand and wish to
use it here, tum to 246 immediately.

GROOL SKILL 9 STAMINA 22

If you reduce Grool’s sTrAMINA to 8 or less, make a
note of his Current sk11L and sTAMINA scores and
turn at once to 6g. If you manage to kill him outright,
turn to 252. If you are forced to flee, you may do so
at any time; turn to 377.

167

The Mutant Chaos Ogte is a truly formidable enemy.
Each Attack Round, roll one dice. If you roll a 6, the
monster will spit out a blob of corrosive acid at you,
and you must lose 3 stTAMINA points (this happens
whether you have the higher Attack Strength or not,
and is additional to any damage the brute may do by
striking you). So you must kill this monster swiftly!

168

MUTANT CHAOS OGRE § sxitL7 STAMINA 14
If you slay the Ogre, turn to 48.

168

If you think you know the name of the merchant,
convert his name into a number using the following
code: A = 1,B = 2,C = 3, and so on. Add together
the numbers corresponding to the letters in his name
then turn to the paragraph with the same number. If
the paragraph does not begin ‘Ah, you must be ...’,
you have guessed wrongly and you must tum to 194
instead. IF you don’t know his name, you ask the
merchant how he has survived here. He replies simply
that he has certain magical defences against marauding
Orcs and the like; after he killed two of them who
were trying to loot his shop, they kept away for a
while, and now they even come to buy food now and
again. ‘Mind you, it’s not easy getting supplies these
days. The castle folk who fled into the old village
bring what they can, but you just can’t get the service
these days,’ he reflects sadly. You think that he’s
probably crazy but he does have some worthwhile
things for sale; turn to 194

169-170

169
It is not easy to throw a vial of acid so far. You must
subtract 2 points from your Attack Strength for throw-
ing it (but you could use it normally in hand-to-hand
combat), unless you have a catapult to fire it with. If
you have the higher Attack Strength, you cause
damage on Zagor. If he has the higher Attack Strength,
his spell causes you to lose 1 point from your Current
SKILL and 2 points from your Current sTAMINA. Turn

to 299 to decide a course of action for the next Attack
Round.

170
The Colossus also strikes you with its whip, which is
made of enchanted Basilisk leather! You must spend 1
Magic Point to avoid its magical effects. If you have at
least 1 Magic Point, return to 126 to continue the
aght. If you haven’t, then you are turned to stone, and
your adventure ends here!

17-172

171
A chiselled set of stone steps, leading north, lies
behind the secret door. There is a sticky, slimy sub-
stance on the floor, so you descend carefully. It is dark
here, so you need a lantern (or a Light spell) to light
your way. If you do not use one or other, you will
stumble and fall heavily, losing 2 sTAMINA points. The
steps end at a landing with a single door opposite
you. The door doesn’t look very strong, nor is it
locked, but there is a glowing pattern of magical runes
on it. If you are Sallazar, you can read these runes;
tum to 386. Otherwise, you can simply open the door
(turn to 339), use an Open spell to bypass the runes if
you can (tum to 110), or decide not to take the risk
and search elsewhere (turn to 376)

172
As you arrive at the top of the platform, Grool lets a
potion vial fall from his lips; the crafty monster has
drunk a healing draught. Roll one dice and add 1 to
the number rolled: the total is the number of points of
lost sTAMINA he has regained. Raising his club above
his head, the Ogre prepares to fight to the death. If

you win, turn to 252

173-174

473

You have spent some hours in a rough-and-tumble
part of town, where pickpockets and cutpurses throng
the streets and taverns. You must Test your Luck. If
you are Lucky, you have managed to keep all your
gold. If you are Unlucky, you lose half of the gold you
had (round fractions up) — a thief has dipped into your
pockets! Now, will you:

Turn to 56
Tum to 154

Buy some equipment?
Consult one of the king’s sages?
Head for the ship to take you to

Tower Island? Turn to 220

174
The Hellhorns are ferocious enemies and you will be
lucky to survive the onslaught of butting horns and
flailing whips!

SKILL STAMINA
First HELLHORN 9 10
Second HELLHORN 9 10

If a Hellhorn hits you, you must roll one dice and
consult the table below to see the extent of the
damage it does to you:

fF

175

Dice Roll Effect
1 Glancing blow from whip: lose 1
STAMINA point
2-3 Whip blow: lose 2 sTAMINA points

Head-butt: lose 2 STAMINA points

5 Special whip blow: lose 2 STAMINA
points and 1 SKILL point

) Special head-butt: lose 2 STAMINA
points, plus 2 extra STAMINA points
from poisoned homs!

bh

Any SKILL points you may lose because of a special
whip blow are only temporary and are regained when
the combat ends. If you win, you enter the Hellhorns’
guard chamber through the open west door; turn to

99

175

This is a card from Zagor’s own magical pack, lost to
him when he was transported here! Turning it over,
you see the image of a silver dagger etched on its
face. This counts as a Silver Dagger, which you can
use to weaken the monster when you encounter him.
Gain 1 Luck point for this find. Holding the second
card, however, you feel a sudden intuition that this
card may be dangerously unpredictable in its effects
on you. If you decide to turn it over anyway, turn to
245. If you prefer not to examine it, you can leave and
explore the cavern at the end of the passage beyond
if you have not already done so (turn to 10), or head
back to the main cavern you entered by (turn to 186),

176-177

176

‘Thulu, the Orc chieftain in the Throne Room, holds a
Healer prisoner. The jail cell lies behind the west wall.
He's the only way you could heal plague, if you've
caught it. Oh, unless you pay the hag, but her price
would be high. She’s one of the king’s old White
Witches, corrupted by the Demon's magic many years
azo. To get to her, you'd have to get past the
Hellhors guarding the Throne Room. Mind you,
that’s a lot easier than getting through the Throne
Room, And beware her cat — it’s extremely dangerous.’
Returm to 22.

177
If the first Orc is invisible, you must subtract 2 from
your Attack Strength when fighting him. As you
confront the second Orc, he draws his sword to
defend himself, leaving the robed man cowering on
the floor. You must fight the Orcs together.

SKILL STAMINA
First GREAT ORC 8 7
Second GREAT ORC 8 7
178

If you win, you can take 1 Gold Piece and some food
from the Orcs (add 1 to your Provisions). The ald
healer explains that he was imprisoned and forced to
use his curative arts on the Orcs if they ever suffered
injuries. He is deeply grateful to you and declares that
he will use his healing energies to help; restore your
STAMINA to its Initial level. The healer can also cure
any one form of plague you may have (but only one).
He tells you that his old mentor, the great healer
Zuqurulm, is imprisoned on the next floor above by
the Orc chieftain, Thulu, Thulu has a great guard of
Crown Zombies and mutant Orcs about him; if you
can destroy that terrible force, however, Zugurulm
would certainly help you. If you are Braxus, turn to
201. Otherwise, the old man says that now he wants
to leave Castle Argent and help the handful of
wretched souls attacked by Orcs on Tower Island, so
you allow him to go. Now it is time to search
elsewhere; you leave the temple and head west to the
end of the passageway, where it turns north (turn to

357),

178
The knight is clearly sunk deep in despair, unable to
rouse himself, no longer a true warrior such as yourself

179

— but you like the look of that plate mail he is
wearing! Boldly you say to him, ‘Sir Knight, if you can
fight no longer, you can still help me. I have come to
destroy the evil which condemns you to such a
wretched existence, cloistered here, and I could make
good use of the armour you are wearing. If you will
not fight at my side, surely you will give me that?’
The man looks ashamed of himself but then acquiesces,
He gives you his fine magical plate mail armour! You
must spend 1 Magic Point to be able to use it; if you
do that, this armour will add 2 to your Attack Strength
in all future combats! Gain 1 Luck point. Now, if you
want to ask Davian about the knight with the magical
sword in the painting you have seen, though this
could be tactless, turn to 202. Otherwise, you must
leave and explore elsewhere; you can march south and
then eastwards (tum to 399) or northwards to the
Passage of Hawks (turn to 111).

179
The chamber at the top of the Great Tower is sealed.
Soon the Zagor-Demon will begin to regenerate and
rise up before you. You may be able to overcome it
again, but you will never be able to destroy it — you
are doomed! You have failed at the last, and your
adventure ends here.

TS _____..

180

180
What you see in this middle chamber of the Great
Tower almost defies belief; the sheer scale of it is
gigantic, breath-taking. Hovering some twenty-five
metres above you is a giant stone platform, more or
less square in shape, with a cupola above it and arches
on all sides sculpted in the shape of enormous dragon
jaws. A turbulent vortex of air whirls below the
platform, drawing up dust and debris into a spinning
cone which rises to the base of the platform. Trailing
from the platform down to ground level are four
rickety-looking rope-bridges. From the top of the cupola
a beam of milky light ascends to the ceiling, where a
white arch almost out of your range of vision stands,
close to the top of the tower,

And then there is the War Dragon ... Reclining on
the platform, the monster appears to be asleep. It must
measure forty metres from snout to tail, and you’re
going to have to kill it.

Think carefully about what you wish to do before you
choose how to ascend to the platform. If you have an
onyx wand, turn to 260. The Dragon will be the most
powerful foe you have faced in Castle Argent, so you
must do all you can to improve your chances of
victory. Then you must decide how to get up to the
Dragon. If you have at least thirty metres of rope to
tie together, you can use a bow (or a Magic Arrow) to
fire a line up to the platform and then clamber up the
rope; if you wish to do this, tum to 4g. If not, will
you:

181-182

Use a Potion of Flying (if you have
one)? Turn to 364

Climb one of the rope-bridges? Turn to 272
Enter the swirling vortex, hoping to
be carried upwards? Tum to 334
Decline to climb up, and instead
challenge the Dragon? Turn to 346
181
You gather 15 Gold Pieces’ worth of gems ... not

that they will be of any use to you when you have to
fight Zagor, of course. Turn to 262.

182

If you chose to remove the web only, or the web and
the circle, you can now open the door, but the symbol
will explode in a brilliant flash of orange fire and you
must deduct 6 points from your sTAMINA; turn to 229.
[f you removed the circle only, turn to 253. If you
removed the triangle only, or the triangle and the circle,
you try to open the door but cannot do so, though you
come to no harm; tum to 397. If you removed the
triangle and the web, or if you erased all three parts of
the symbol with three Open spells, turn to 229.

183-186

183
You don’t know whether the Dragon egg fluid will be
helpful or not, but at least you have it! Turn to 5a and
explore elsewhere in the east wing, or tum to 7 to
return to the Bronze Stride.

184

This door has a huge brass plaque bearing the forbid-
ding name: ‘muncus’. The door is locked here. If you
use an Open spell, or if you have a thief hireling with
you, you can open it. If you have a lockpick, you can
Test your Skill and, if you are successful, you can open
this door; if you fail, the door remains stubbornly
locked. If you open the door by one of these means,
furn to 83. If you can’t open the door, you will either
have to batter it down (turn to 263) or leave and
search elsewhere in the jail complex (tum to 51).

185
There is the unmistakable stench of Hellhorn here.
You're certain that there is a Hellhorn behind the door!
Hellhorns are powerful enemies indeed; consider care-
fully whether you really want to enter here. If you do,
turn to 223. If you would rather explore elsewhere,
turn to 36.

186
Making your way back to the main cavern, you find
that by tinkering with the winch on this side you can
get the wooden platform to move freely, so you are
able to cross safely and return to the main part of the
castle. Turn to 557 to explore elsewhere.

— EF e———E—E—EE——EE—————————

187-188

187

Which card you manage to snatch in mid-air cannot be
predicted. Roll one dice to determine which card
you get; if you want to spend 1 Magic Point to
add i to the number rolled, you may do so (but
you must decide whether or not to do this before
you roll the dice!). If you roll x or 2, turn to 153. If
you roll 3 or 4, turn to 230. If you roll 5 or higher,
turn to 273.

188
‘Wizard Remstar, I] come in peace!’ is all you can
think of to say. The ghost wavers, unsure what it
should do next. ‘I am not here to disturb you or to
fight. I have come to deal with the evil inside this
castle.’

For a second, the ghost looks infinitely sad, as if
tormented beyond despair, then it whispers, Free me
from this torment. The Demon made me its servant; |
was tortured in the terrible dungeons by the monster,
Mungus, and put fo a terrible death. I am condemned
to wander here for ever, unless some soul will free
me.’

If you want to free Remstar from his torment, you
must give up 1 Magic Point, or 1 point of sxkILL,
STAMINA or LUCK (from your Current and Initial score).
By giving something of your life-force, the ghost can
be freed and regain peace. If you are willing to do
this, turn to 57. If you are not, the ghost will be
angered by your refusal, and you must fight it {turn to

114).

189-190

189
Lions are the bane of the Knight. You raise the staff
and concentrate on the symbol of the lion, and from
the tip of the staff a magical, glowing red lion forms
and leaps on to the Knight, The Knight automatically
loses 2 points from his stamina every Attack Round,
and you may also subtract 2 from his Attack
Strength, since he is trying to fend off the magical
lion as well as you! Return to 314 to continue the

fight.

1
The Air Elemental that forms here is not as strong as
many of its type, but it is still a formidable enemy. You
must Test your Luck, If you are Unlucky, the whirling
Elemental knocks you off your feet, and you must
subtract 1 from your Attack Strength for the first Attack
Round, as well as losing « point from your STAMINA.

AIR ELEMENTAL SKILL 12 STAMINA 15

When you first win an Attack Round, do you have a
magic weapon? Elementals cannot be harmed by non-
magical weapons. if you have no magic weapon, you
must flee; turn to 97 to search elsewhere. If you have a
magic weapon, you can fight normally and your blow

187-188

187

Which card you manage to snatch in mid-air cannot be
predicted, Roll one dice to determine which card
you get; if you want to spend 1 Magic Point to
add iz to the number rolled, you may do so (but
you must decide whether or not to do this before
you Toll the dice!). If you roll 1 or 2, tum to 15%. If
you roll 3 or 4, turn to 230. If you roll 5 or higher,
turn to 27%.

188
‘Wizard Remstar, I come in peace!’ is all you can
think of to say. The ghost wavers, unsure what it
should do next. ‘I am not here to disturb you or to
fight. I have come to deal with the evil inside this
castle.’

For a second, the ghost looks infinitely sad, as if
tormented beyond despair, then it whispers, ‘Free me
from this torment, The Demon made me its servant; |
was tortured in the terrible dungeons by the monster,
Mungus, and put to a terrible death. I am condemned
to wander here for ever, unless some soul will free

,

me.

If you want to free Remstar from his torment, you
must give up 1 Magic Point, or 1 point of sKILL,
STAMINA or Luck (from your Current and Initial score).
By giving something of your life-force, the ghost can
be freed and regain peace. If you are willing to do
this, turn to 57. If you are not, the ghost will be
angered by your refusal, and you must fight it (turn to

414).

189-190

189

Lions are the bane of the Knight. You raise the staff
and concentrate on the symbol of the lion, and from
the tip of the staff a magical, glowing red lion forms
and leaps on to the Knight. The Knight automatically
loses 2 points from his stamina every Attack Round,

you may also subtract 2 from his Attack
Strength, since he is trying to fend off the magical

for as well as you! Retum to 314 to continue the
ight,

190
The Air Elemental that forms here is not as strong as
many of its type, but it is still a formidable enemy. You
must Test your Luck. If you are Unlucky, the whirling
Elemental knocks you off your feet, and you must
subtract 1 from your Attack Strength for the first Attack
Round, as well as losing 1 point from your sTAMINA

AIR ELEMENTAL SKILL 12 STAMINA 15

When you first win an Attack Round, do you have a
magic weapon? Elementals cannot be harmed by non-
magical weapons, If you have no magic weapon, you
must flee; turn to g7 to search elsewhere. If you have a
magic weapon, you can fight normally and your blow

19i-192

has caused the Elemental to lose staMINA points as
normal. If your weapon is not magical, but you do havea
way of making it magical for this one combat you must
take one Attack Round to do this (during which time the
Elemental strikes you; lose 2 STAMINA points). Continue
fighting the Elemental, but every third Attack Round you
must again Test your Leek If you are Lucky, you can
continue fighting; if you are Unlucky, you are knocked
down by the Elemental, losing 1 stAmiNA point, and
you must also subtract 1 from your Attack Strength for
the following Attack Round, If you win, turn to 217

191

Dropping on to vicious metal spikes, you lose 8 points
from your STAMINA (if you are wearing chain mail
armour, lose 6 points; if you are wearing plate mail
armour, lose 4 points). If you are still alive, you have
to clamber out of this deep pit, and it isn’t going to be
easy: you must Test vour Skill twice, adding 3 to the
number rolled (if you are Stubble, you have to add 5
to the number rolled!). If you have at least 20 metres
of rope, however, you can reduce this addition by 1
point. If you are successful either time you Test your
Skill, turn to 26. If you fail both times, turn to 84.

192
The stone-built mass of Castle Argent stands before

193

you! Its great, iron-shod gates lie at the end of the road,
which then angle down into the earth so that any going
into the castle must first enter by subterranean chambers.
Above ground, the walls of the castle are far too high
for you to climb. You see that the castle has a central
keep, with east and west wings, and on the side of the
castle furthest from where you are stands the northern-
most Great Tower, rising to a spire among swooping
seagulls. At its highest point is a throne room where
scores of kings have undergone the Ritual of the Sword
before ruling Amarillia from this mighty fortress. Surely,
you feel, that is where the monster, Zagor, is growing in
evil might. There is no time to lose; you stride forward
to the seemingly unguarded citadel. The massive iron.
gates, their brass plaques now defaced by crude, Orcish
scrawl, are closed. If you can, and wish to, use an Open
spell to enter, turn to 103. If you cannot use this spell,
your only option is to try to force the doors; turn to 6.

193
The little brute tries to leap up and sink its claws into
your armour! You have to fight the animal; it’s starving
and won't be fended off.

PARNASSAN IRONHOG © skitt8 = STAMINA4

If the Ironhog wins even a single Attack Round, turn
to 163. Otherwise, tur to 214.

i —C

194

194
The merchant has the following items for sale:

Provisions 1 Gold Piece each
Lantern oil, 1 flask 1 Gold Piece
Rope, 10 metres 1 Gold Piece
Longbow and arrows 5 Gold Pieces
Plate mail armour 12 Gold Pieces
Magic Ring 6 Gold Pieces
Potion of Luck 5 Gold Pieces
Vial of Plague Antidote 6 Gold Pieces
Vial of Anti-venom 3 Gold Pieces

If you buy the longbow, you will be instructed later
on when you can use it. The plate mail armour will
add 1 to your Attack Strength (the merchant has
human-sized plate mail only). The Potion of Luck can
be drunk at any time, except during a combat, and it
restores 1-3 lost LUCK points (roll one dice and halve
the number rolled, rounding fractions up). A vial of
Plague Antidote will cure one (and only one!) form of
plague which you may be unfortunate enough to
catch, restoring all losses from Initial (but not from
Current) STAMINA. The Anti-venom can be drunk at
any time (except during combat) and, for the first
three combats after you drink it, it will prevent you
being harmed by poison. The merchant also has a
limited supply of extra special, but expensive, magical
items; if you want to inspect these, turn to 16. If you
want sell an item here, the merchant will pay you 2
Gold Piece less than the selling price listed above
Make your purchases or sales and amend your
Adventure Sheet accordingly. Note that, if you

195

acquire more gold and wish to buy again, you
may return here by turning to this paragraph
until you cross a stairway in the castle Now it’s
time to leave and search elsewhere; turn to 218.

195
The Elf falls dead, but his bag of treasures vanishes as
he falls; a powerful spell placed on it ensures that it
will teleport away from whoever slew him! Also, his
dagger no longer carries the poison it did before
However, you may take his strange cloak. Provided
you are not wearing any kind of metal armour, when
you wear this cloak you can subtract 1 from the
Attack Strength of all your enemies, since they cannot
see you clearly in order to strike at you (but this does
not affect Zagor or any Dragon). You must spend 1
Magic Point to be able to use this cloak. Now you can
open the westerly door in this room (turn to 130),
leave and open the door opposite, if you haven't
already done so (turn to 55), or Jeave and go north to
the east-west passageway (tum to 43).

196-197

196

The signs on the doors here portray Shandalla, Amaril-
lian goddess of healing, mercy and kindness, A peek
through the gap between the door shows that a
temple lies beyond; once ornate and decorated with
beautiful silks, linens and paintings, it is now defaced,
as is so much of once-proud Castle Argent. In the
gloom you can make out two vaguely humanoid
forms at the far end of the temple on either side of a
pair of doors on a dais behind the altar. They are
unmoving, though they hold long, cruelly barbed
halberds, and the stench of death is in the air. If you
have a bow, you can fire an arrow at one of them and
inflict 2 points of damage to its sTAMINA with a
surprise attack, but then you will be forced to fight. If
you wish to fight, tum to 138. Otherwise, you cannot
enter the temple and must explore elsewhere: you
leave and head west to the northerly turning of the
passageway outside in order to explore deeper inside
the castle; turn to 357,

197
You know that a truly awesome challenge awaits
you beyond the wrought-iron door. The sheer scale
of the noise in there tells you that the place is
full of monsters, Make a careful note of the pre-
cautions you wish to take and what you plan to do
when you enter. When you are ready to move on,
tum to 300. If you aren’t yet ready to make an
assault here but prefer to backtrack south and east
to explore an area you haven't entered yet, turn to

43.

198-200

198

As you run up the stairs beyond the Dark EIf’s
chamber, he flings a throwing dagger after you You
must Test your Skill, adding z to the number rolled. If
you are successful, you manage to dodge the attack. If
you are unsuccessful, you are wounded in the back
and must lose 2 STAMINA points. Tum to 376 to
explore elsewhere.

199
You grab the chest and drag it out of the room.
Unfortunately it contains only a single Gold Piece and
some broken and useless glassware! Cursing your ill-
fortune, you leave to search elsewhere; turn to 280.

200
A huge, glowing goblet emerges from the tip of the
wand, rises over Grool’s head and pours a cascade of
steaming acid on to him! The Ogre shrieks in pain as
he loses 12 STAMINA points! Turn to 166 to continue
fighting, reducing his stAMINA score accordingly.

201-203

201

‘In the north wing of the castle is to be found a great
magical sword, a mighty weapon in hands such as
yours. You must seek it! Find the Bronze Stride beyond
the Throne Room, and take the northem door. Now |
wish to leave, to care for those poor souls who
wander Tower Island, refugees from the castle who
have survived these many years.’ Gain 1 LUCK point
for this helpful hint! You leave the temple and head
west along the passageway outside, to the point where
it turns north (turn to 357).

202
‘Sir Bethel was my friend. He was a mighty wamior,
and he used a magical flying sword. It would fight
independently of him, dancing in the air and slicing
through Orcs like a knife through butter. Alas, he
perished in the wars, of course. To find his rooms,
when you leave here you should head northwards,
then east along the Passage of Hawks to the cross-
roads, Once there, you should travel northwards and
take the eastern route at the end of that passageway,
That is where you will find the chambers of the
Argent Knights.’ You thank Davian for his help. Now
you must leave and explore elsewhere; you can head
south and then eastwards (turn to 399) or northwards
(turn fo 111).

203

Once again, this is a room that has been looted:
furniture and paintings have been smashed up, graffiti
are scrawled all over the place, and it seems that a

204

couple of Orcs couldn’t hold their beer and brought it
back up over the remains of the desk. Little is left to
show what this room was once used for, but to the
south there is a door opposite the one you entered by
and on it a network of magical lines, resembling a
spider’s web set first within a circle then within a
triangle. You suspect a magical trap here. If you are
Sallazar, turn to 71. If you want to smash down this
door, tum to 253. If you want to use an Open spell,
turn to 8g. If you don’t want to risk the effects of the
trap, turn to 3 and search elsewhere.

204
The Orc barracks are extensive, a honeycomb of small
rooms and guard posts. Near the entrance door, how-
ever, is a small guardroom from which you can hear
the sound of guttural voices shrieking and chuckling.
Taking a very careful peek round the door, you see a
couple of Goblins rolling dice. They are using toenail
clippings to gamble with; one of them has just won
four clippings on a big bet and is about to chew them,
washing them down with a tankard of foul, Goblin
beer. You don't hesitate but walk straight in to attack
these feeble servants of the Orcs Fight them both
together.

SKILL STAMINA
First GOBLIN 5 5
Second GOBLIN 5 5

If you win, you find a crudely drawn map of the Orc
barracks on the wall here, and from this you can see
approximately where the room of the leader of the

205

Orcs is. If you're going to plunge further into the
barracks, this is where you want to make for, rather
than wasting time chopping up dozens of Orcs all
over the place ~ after all, only the leader will have any
worthwhile treasure. If you want to head for the
leader's den, tum to 352. If you prefer to leave, now
that you can see how large the barracks is from the
map, turn to 43.

205
To your delight, the room beyond the yellow door
contains 2 Tower Chest — and 2 pair of guards: two
suits of lacquered yellow plate mail carrying heavy
pikes in their gauntleted hands. The magically animated
suits of armour attack at once, If you choose to flee,
they will chase you out of the barracks as far as the
passageway outside; turn to 64. If you wish to fight,
you can back into a comer and fight these magical
guardians one at a time.

SKILL STAMINA
First ANIMATED ARMOUR 8 1o
Second ANIMATED
ARMOUR 8 10

If you win, the Tower Chest here has a small shield on
its lid, showing eight green stars on a yellow back-
ground, When you have opened it, you leave here;
you can open the blue door, if you haven't done so
(turn to 327), search the many barracks rooms
thoroughly, if you haven’t bothered before (tum to
12), or leave the barracks and head south (tum to 64).

204

couple of Orcs couldn’t hold their beer and brought it
back up over the remains of the desk. Little is left to
show what this room was once used for, but to the
south there is a door opposite the one you entered by
and on it a network of magical lines, resembling a
spider's web set first within a circle then within a
triangle. You suspect a magical trap here. If you are
Sallazar, turn to 71. If you want to smash down this
door, turn to 253. If you want to use an Open spell,
turn to 8g. If you don’t want to risk the effects of the
trap, turn to 3 and search elsewhere.

204
The Orc barracks are extensive, a honeycomb of small
rooms and guard posts. Near the entrance door, how-
ever, is a smali guardroom from which you can hear
the sound of guttural voices shrieking and chuckling.
Taking a very careful peek round the door, you see a
couple of Goblins rolling dice. They are using toenail
clippings to gamble with; one of them has just won
four clippings on a big bet and is about to chew them,
washing them down with a tankard of foul, Goblin
beer You don’t hesitate but walk straight in to attack
these feeble servants of the Orcs. Fight them both
together.

SKILL STAMINA
First GOBLIN 5 5
Second GOBLIN 5 5

If you win, you find a crudely drawn map of the Orc
barracks on the wall here, and from this you can see
approximately where the room of the leader of the

205

Orcs is. If you're going to plunge further into the
barracks, this is where you want to make for, rather
than wasting time chopping up dozens of Orcs all
over the place — after all, only the leader will have any
worthwhile treasure. If you want to head for the
leader's den, turn to 352. If you prefer to leave, now
that you can see how large the barracks is from the
map, turn to 43.

205
To your delight, the room beyond the yellow door
contains a Tower Chest — and a pair of guards: two
suits of lacquered yellow plate mail carrying heavy
pikes in their gauntleted hands. The magically animated
suits of armour attack at once, If you choose to flee,
they will chase you out of the barracks as far as the
passageway outside; turn to 64. If you wish to fight,
you can back into a corner and fight these magical
guardians one at a time.

; SKILL STAMINA
First ANIMATED ARMOUR 8 10
Second ANIMATED
ARMOUR 8 10

If you win, the Tower Chest here has a small shield on
its lid, showing eight green stars on a yellow back-
ground. When you have opened it, you leave here;
you can open the blue door, if you haven't done so
(furn to 327), search the many barracks rooms
thoroughly, if you haven't bothered before (tum to
12), or leave the barracks and head south (turn to 64)

TTT

206-207

206
You have a few hours before your ship sets sail on the
next tide. You may be able to acquire some gold by
putting your hands to use, helping out with labouring
work at the docks (tum to 256) or you could try
gambling in a tavern (tum to 32). If neither prospect
appeals, will you now:

Turn to 56
Turn to 154

Buy some equipment?
Consult one of the king’s sages?
Wait for the ship to take you to

Tower Island? Tum to 220

207
You feel yourself being magically slowed down as you
try to race up the steps: Zagor is casting a spell at you
while you climb. He summons one of his Demonic
Servants, a wretched, gibbering thing that resembles
nothing so much as a dwarf-sized toad with tentacles
where its front limbs should be and a ragged, barbed
and forked tongue hanging out of its crooked mouth
The thing lollops in front of you and attempts to
attack with its tentacles and forked tongue; if it strikes
you, you lose 1 point from your STAMINA because of
its buffeting, plus 1 additional point from your
STAMINA from the poison in its acidic drool.

DEMONIC SERVANT SKILL 7 STAMINA 5

Keep track of how many Attack Rounds it takes you
to despatch this creature; each Attack Round, Zagor
gains 1 STAMINA point! When you win, you rush to
the throne to attack Zagor; tum to 74.

208-109

208

The side-passage leads into a cavern which has a very
faint glow coming from its crystalline walls and ceiling.
Sharp, angular stalactites hang like chandeliers in the
warm air. There is a distinctive aura of magic about
this place and, as you creep cautiously forward, a blue
triangle of glowing energy appears in mid-air, blocking
the entrance. If you are Sallazar, you can use 1 Magic
Point to dispel} this trap if you so choose (tum to 40
but ignore the instructions regarding sTAMINA loss).
Otherwise, it needs no special magical ability to realize
this must be a trap that has been activated by your
approach. If you decide to walk through it and suffer
its effects, tum to 40. If you don’t want to take this
risk, you can either make for the cavern further along,
if you haven't already entered it (turn to 10), or return
to the main cavern where you entered (turn to 186).

209
Alas! The hag has cast a Magic Screen spell upon
herself, and your spell simply fails. She gets a free
attack against you (a Fireball] spell if this is the first or
second Attack Round, a poisoned dagger attack other-
wise) and her cat also bites you, so you lose another 1
STAMINA point. If you cast another spell at the hag,
however, her Magic Screen spell has now dissipated.
Return to ago and continue the fight.

210-211

210
This cell-block has some forty individual cells along
many metres of corridor, but at the end of the corridor
is a quite different door. A black, wrought-iron image
of a Dragon has been sealed into the hard, varnished
wood of the door’s surface. It takes the largest key
from your keyring to fit the lock, but you can open it
at last and peer into the large chamber beyond. What
you see here strikes fear into your heart! Round the
room scores and scores of huge, yellowed bones are
strewn and, as you stare at the sheer scale of this
place, the bones begin to move together, jerkily at
first, then, as the spine and limbs of the skeletal
monster assemble, a Dragon-like creature suddenly
rises on all fours. Given the size of this monster you
may prefer to flee; if you do so, you have to leave the
jails behind you, so tum to 357 to search elsewhere. If
you want to fight, you will have a little time to
perform some actions before the Skeletal Dragon
assembles, which will give you a slight advantage;
turn to 4.

211
The healer concentrates all his powers on his magical
ring — and disappears in a puff of magical smoke! Now
you must leave and open one of the doors in the
Throne Room which you haven't opened before, all
are along the north wall, so will you open:

The left-hand door? Tum to 282
The door in the middle? Tum to 91
The right-hand door? Turn to 244

212-213

212

One of the bookcases seems to be ever so slightly out
of alignment with the south wall, Further examination
shows that it can be pushed so that it rotates, and
behind it is a secret passageway which leads down to
the east. It is dark here so, if you enter and you do not
have a lantern (or a Light spell), you must temporarily
subtract 2 points from your skit for as long as you
are in an unlit area. If you decide to explore the secret
passageway, turn to 131. If you would rather explore
elsewhere, turn to 3, but make a note that you can
return to explore this secret passageway later if you
wish by turning to this paragraph, as long as you are
still on this level of the castle (but not if you have
crossed any stairways).

213
The dust is powerfully magical, taken from the tomb
of one of Amarillia’s most fabled wizards of a bygone
age. Restore your Current SKILL, STAMINA and LUCK
to their full, Initial levels. Turn to 262.

214-215

214
You didn’t want to kill the animal, but you couldn’t
afford to lose your precious armour! Now, since there
is nothing else of interest in this chamber, will you
open the door opposite with the ceramic plaque, if
you haven't already done so (tum to 112), or make for
the end of the north passage (turn to 43)?

215
The angry horde of ravening, diseased vermin rushes
at you!

RAT HORDE SKILL 7 STAMINA 8&

If you win, did the Rat Horde win a single Attack
Round? If they did, you have contracted a terrible
pestilence: Bubonic Plague. Now you must count the
numbers of new rooms, chambers or caverns you enter
after leaving the Feast Hall. After you have entered
five, the plague begins to take hold; you must deduct
2 points from both your Initial and Current STAMINA
for each new room (cavern, chamber) you enter, When
your Initial STAMINA teaches zero, you die from
plague! This terrible process can be ended only if you
can find a Healer or if you already have or manage to
acquire Plague Antidote (which restores your Initial

216-217

but not your Current, sTAMINA). Now you are in a
race against time, and not just because the squeaking
you can hear from holes in the walls suggests that
more rats may be on the way! If you wish to search
the Feast Hall, turn to 61. If you want to explore
elsewhere, you should leave the Feast Hall and return
to the doorway to the entrance hall; turn to 376.

216

A small plaque above the depressions set into this
door carries the legend: ‘Chamber of Meditation’, If
you have a wooden casket with four gems inside it,
you can place the gems into the depressions in the
door and so gain admittance. If you have the gems,
take the initial letters of their names and rearrange
them to form a word. Take the numbers corresponding
to those initial letters (A = 1,B = 2, C = 3, etc.)
then add them together Turn to the paragraph with
this number. If you do not have these gems, you
cannot open this door; turn to 41 to search elsewhere.

217
The ornate circles on the floor dim, the light of magic
sparking out of them. Since this chamber is nearly
bare, you try the north door, wondering what may lie
behind it, since the Elemental was a powerful guardian.

eS

218

Behind the door you find a small cubicle with a Tower
Chest! You also find an ornate onyx staff; it has four
symbols etched along its length: a lion, a goblet, a star
and a chevron. Gain i LUCK point for these finds. You
do not know as yet exactly what the staff does but, if
you use it at some future time, you will have to spend
1 Magic Point to be able to do so. Now turn to g7 to
search elsewhere.

218

Looking along the torch-lit northern side-passage,
standing at the point where it joins the east—west
passageway, you can see three doors: one close to you
on the west side of the passage, another further along,
and a door at the end of the passage, on the north
side. If you want to return to the east end of the main
east—west passage, turn to 3. If you want to go to the
western end of the main east-west passage, tum to
357. Otherwise, you should open a door along this
north passage which you have not opened before. Will
you open:

The first door on your left? Tum to 398
The second door on your left? Tum to 107
The door at the end of the passage? Turn to 65
219-220

219

The Zagor-Demon’s eyes jerk open and its taloned
hands grab at your body, clutching you tightly and
hampering your every movement. From now on, the
number of seconds you take to progress with the
body wil! be doubled for all movement to the Heart-
fires! If your journey takes 800 seconds or longer,
make a note to turn to 21 immediately. Now turn back
to the paragraph you came from,

220

The Glory of Amarillia is a fully armed war-galley, and
to your amazement the captain is a Barrabang Centaur!
Centaurs are hardly renowned for seamanship, but the
magical iron shoes on the Centaur’s feet allow him to
walk on water, as you discover when he literally walks
aboard after you

‘There ts a fair northerly wind,’ Captain Carannus says
as he sniffs at the bitterly cold air. ‘We should get to
the end of the Icecap Islands without fog to worry
about, Only icebergs and whatever monsters of the
deep may wait in store, eh?’

221-222

The voyage bears out his optimism, The great vessel
skirts the warm Stream of Zephyrs and, after some
days, turns south-west past the coast of the Frozen
Lands. But on the margins of the warm sea flows, fogs
begin to spring up as you head for Tower Island itself.
You just keep your fingers crossed and hope that no
predators of the deep are sensing the great ship above
them. If you want to spend a point of Luck to avoid
even the chance of such an encounter, turn to 44.
Otherwise, turn to 98.

221

Test your Spot Skill. If you are successful, tum to 79. If
you fail, turn to 146

222
You take an extra 120 seconds to get across the
bridge, less 15 seconds for each point of LUCK you
decided to spend (if you are using a Potion of Flying,
the basic 120 seconds is reduced to 60, but the
absolute minimum time you need to cross, no matter
how many LucK points you spent, is 10 seconds).
Right at the bottom of the bridge you must Test your
Luck. If you are Lucky, tum to 14. If you are Unlucky,
turn to 60,

223

225
You have bearded the Hellhom Champion in its lair!
Among apile of looted treasure, befouled furnishings and
decor and gnawing on an Orc leg, the three-metre-tall
Champion rises up on its massively muscled legs and
cracks its whip angrily at your intrusion. Opening an
enormous mouth filled with discoloured, yellowish teeth,
the monster breathes a fetid cloud of filth as it prepares to
assault you with a flurry of horn-butts and whip strikes.
Unless you have taken Anti-venom, the poisonous breath
of the Champion nauseates and sickens you, making you
weak; you must subtract 1 from your Attack Strength for
this combat. If you have an onyx staff, turn at once to 150

HELLHORN CHAMPION skiLlL 10 STAMINA 16

If the Hellhom Champion hits you, you must roll one
dice and consult the table below to see what damage
it does to you:

Dice Roll Effect

1 Glancing blow from whip: lose 1

STAMINA point
2-3 Whip blow: lose 2 STAMINA points

4 Head-butt: lose 2 STAMINA points

5 Special whip blow: lose 2 STAMINA
points and 2 SKILL point

6 Special head-butt: lose 2 STAMINA

points, plus 2 extra STAMINA points
from poisoned horns!

Any skitt points you lose because of a special whip
blow are only temporary and are regained when this
combat ends. If you win, tum to 353.

224-225

oe

The white lacquered door opens into a large chamber
which, to your delight, contains a Tower Chest; how-
ever, from this distance you cannot discern in detail
the heraldic symbol on it. The room also contains a
pair of suits of armour made of white lacquered plate
mail and grasping halberds in their mailed gauntlets;
they snap stiffly and loudly to attention as you enter,
pointing their weapons directly at you. If you prefer
to flee, turn to 5. Otherwise, fight them one at a time.

SKILL STAMINA
Firsts ANIMATED ARMOUR _ 8 10
Second ANIMATED
ARMOUR 8 10

If you win, you find that the heraldic symbol on the
Tower Chest shows three blue chevrons on a white
background, When you are ready to leave, you should
explore an area you haven't entered yet along the
Passage of Hawks, so will you:

Go east to the mid-way point of the

Passage of Hawks? Turn to §
Go west then along the south

passage? Turn to 72
Go west then along the north

passage? Tum to 385

Open the single door to the west? Turn to 275
225

As you stride past bare stone walls with the irregularly

placed, dimly burning torches and stand beside the

226

first doorway, you are surprised as a shadowy hand
reaches from the gloom and chills you with its dark
touch. Deduct 2 points from your STAMINA. You have
been ambushed by a vicious and malign undead crea-
ture, a Skulking Shade, the ghost of an especially
spiteful and wicked servant of Evil. The shadowy form
is vaguely human in shape, but any humanity in its
features has long since departed. Now you must fight
the wretched creature.

SKULKING SHADE SKILL 7

If you win, you open the door and find to your
disappointment that the room beyond is completely
bare. You walk along as far as the two doors at the
end of the passage; will you open the plain wooden
door (turn to 28) or the door with the grille set into it
(turn to 51)?

STAMINA 7

226
The Orc leader grasps his hammer firmly in his power-
ful hands and leaps down from his throne-like chair.
‘Tl knock yore head off, yoo runt!’ he screams. As he
runs at you, you have time to perform one action
(casting a spell, drinking a Potion, etc, but not eating
some Provisions — you don’t have enough time).
Decide what this action will be, then fight for your
life. The Orc leader hates Dwarfs in particular, so, if
you are Stubble, you must add 1 to his Attack

Strength!
ORC LEADER SKILL 8 STAMINA 11

If you win, you can take the leader's treasure, which is

Fe _____ ___

227-229

hidden in a wooden chest under his throne. You find 4
Gold Pieces, a Magic Ring and a scroll with the Skil
Spell inscribed upon it — something the Orcs couldn't
use for their own benefit. The hammer, unfortunately,
is an Orcish weapon, usable only by that unpleasant
race! Leaving the barracks behind you, turn to 43 to
explore elsewhere.

227
Leaving the barracks behind, you may open the door
opposite you, if you haven't done so already (tum to
318), or else make for the large double doors at the far
end of the entrance hall (turn to 376).

228
If you want to go to the Templar’s rooms immediately,
turn to 124, If you want to search elsewhere first, turn
to 36. In either case, make a note that, if you slay
the Grand Templar in his rooms, you should then
turn to 348 to search for the secret panel Dorrick
told you of.

229
The brainless Orcs and Zombies of the lower castle
could not breach this room because of its magical
barrier, so the wizard’s chamber is intact. You search it
thoroughly, so you must eat a meal here. You find 2
Gold Pieces, a scroli of the spel] Fast Hands, a flask of
fine herbal restorative (you regain 4 points of STAMINA
through drinking this, which you can do at any time
except during a combat), a Magic Ring, and a Tower
Chest! Gain 1 Luck point for this fine booty. You also

eee

2430-231

find a scrawled note, perhaps left for an apprentice
now long dead, which suggests that the wizard here
feared he was to be taken to the jails — and noting that
he would take his ‘precious ebony’ with him. Finally,
there is a glowing blue mirror here; it is far too heavy
to carry, but if you are Sallazar you realize that this is
a teleporting portal. If you wish to use it, you must
stand beside it and cast a Teleport spell to convey you
into the mirror and out through the portal beyond. If
you wish to do this, tum to 298, If you do not want
to do this now but think you may wish to do so
later, make a note of this paragraph; you can return
here from any chamber on this floor of the castle in
order to teleport later (but not after you have
crossed any stairways!). If you wish to return to the
main western passage outside the wizard’s chambers,
turn to 3.

2350
The card is blank — or is it a Joker? Or, most confus-
ingly, both at the same time? Whatever it is, it seems
to have no effect on you or on Zagor. Tum to 299.

231
The Dark EIf isn’t going to talk to you; he is screaming
at you to get out as he edges round the room in order
to get his back against the safety of a solid wall.
However, he isn’t making any obviously hostile moves.
If you want to retreat slowly and then explore else-
where, you can get away safely; tum to 376. If you
decide to attack the Dark Elf, who clearly has a spell
ready to launch at you, tum to 258

252-234

252
Zuqurulm can teach you a special form of the Stamina
Spell. This costs 3 Magic Points to cast, but it may be
cast during a combat, at the start of any Attack Round
(if you have enough Magic Points to do so). If you
have the higher Attack Strength, you regain lost
STAMINA equal to half your Initial score (rounding
fractions up). If you do not have the higher Attack
Strength in that Attack Round, however, the spell is
ruined and you do not regain any sTAMINA points
(your enemy will damage you instead). As usual, you
must decide whether you are going to cast this spell in
an Attack Round before you roll dice to determine
Attack Strengths! Now turn to 2114

233
‘Now, don’t you go leaving old Grizzell and poor
little Wacket here,’ the hag says threateningly as you
turn to go. You look around, to see the hag toying
with a discoloured silver dagger, and her pet licking its
lips in that certain way cats have when they‘re anticipat-
ing a tasty morsel, You will have to give the hag 4
Gold Pieces or any one Potion as a bribe to leave you
alone. If you do, you can head for the wrought-iron
door in the passage outside; turn to 197. If you car’t,
or worrt, pay the bribe, you'll have to fight; turn to
2g0.

254
You have found the final guardians of the entrance to
the great castle level above. In this chamber you stand
with your back to a door in the east wall and ahead of

235

you, across the room, is a great spiralling stone stair-
way leading across a deep, fiery chasm up to a landing
far above you. Fortunately for you, Skeleton Warriors
are the only guards here; you can fight them one at a
time here.

SKILL STAMINA
First SKELETON WARRIOR 8 8
Second SKELETON 6 8

WARRIOR

If you win, and you are ready to ascend the stone
stairway, turn to 298. If you want to visit some area of
the castle’s lowest level before setting off upwards, go
instead to the southern end of the passageway outside
this room; tum to 357

235
You have defeated Zagor .,. but you still have to
destroy him! You should know how to do this — but, if
you know where to do it, you will know what the
bridge which hung over the chasm there is made of,
won't you? Take the name of the material and convert
it into a number, using the code A = 1,B = 2,C = 3,
and so on, Add the numbers together, multiply the total
by six, then tum to the paragraph with the same number.
If you do not know what this number is, turn to 179.

236-238

236

In a cramped chamber behind the sliding panel you find
a dark-haired, middle-aged man sitting on a dilapidated
bed with his head in his hands. A small oil-lamp burns
on a table beside him, and you can see the corner of a
wooden chest poking out from under the bed. The
man is wearing plate mail armour and he reacts with
alarm to your entry; you can see from his demeanour
that he knows how to use the heavy broadsword he is
gripping firmly in his left hand while raising a shield
with the other. He is also wearing a curiously omate
gold ring on his right index finger. He yells at you to
leave and is clearly going to be a tough opponent to
fight. If you want to attack him, turn to 2g. If you try
to parley with him, turn to 129. If you back away and
leave, you must explore elsewhere; you can set off to
the south and then eastwards (turn to 399) or north-
wards to the Passage of Hawks (tur to 111).

rey emt
PTE Mae) i
rule yy
iM

ny
Vig

. yj
‘Ae

tt
G. A

237

Moving one of the pallet beds, you notice a ragged
hole in the wall behind the bed leg. However, you can
also hear a scrabbling noise coming from the hole, so
there may well be an element of danger involved. If
you want to thrust your hand into the hole in the wall
to see what may be concealed there, turn to 266. If
you prefer to leave well alone, you return to the main
passage to explore elsewhere; turn to 43.

238
Test your Skill at opening the door. if you are successful,
turn to 329; if you fail, turn to 251.

2359-240

239
The Elf rubs a magical ring on his Jeft hand and simply
vanishes! He has teleported out of Castle Argent with
his booty. Now all you can do is open the westerly
doar in this room (turn to 130), leave this room by the
door you came in through and open the door opposite,
if you haven't already done so (hum to 55), or leave
and head north to the east-west passageway (tum to

43).

240

When you cast the Gold Piece into the well, the
waters below seethe and boil, then all at once become
placid again. The face of an old woman shines up at
you, and the vision puts a thought into your mind:
Beware the traiter-wizard Remstar, bevond the Heartfre.
Then she is gone, Now, will you explore the western
side of the ruins if you haven't done so (tum to 369)
or make for the castle itself (turn to 192)?

24%

241
The onyx staff has four symbols on it: lion, chevron,
goblet and star. If you have spent a Magic Point to
activate the staff (or if you do so now), you may be
able to use it to deal the Dark Knight a mortal blow. If
you know which symbol can defeat him, and if you
have also found a heraldic design on a chest with that
symbol upon it, you know how many symbols were
on that chest and what colour they were. Convert the
letters of the colour into numbers using the code A =
1B = 3,C = 5, etc, Add the numbers together then
multiply that total by the number of the symbols you
found on the chest. (Thus. for example, if you think
that the goblet defeats the Dark Knight, and you had
found two white goblets inscribed on a chest, you
would tum to paragraph 130: WHITE = 23 + 8 +
9 + 20 + 5 = 65, and you would multiply that total
by 2.) Turn to the paragraph you have calculated; if
the name of the symbol isn’t the first word you see in
that paragraph, you are wrong and should return to
paragraph 3124 to continue fighting. You should also
do this if you have the staff but do not know which
symbol defeats the Knight

242

242

You must reduce your Attack Strength here because of
the confined space: subtract 4 if you are Anvar, 2 if
you are Braxus, and 1 if you are Sallazar (Stubble can
fight normally), and a further 1 point if you are
wearing plate mail armour. Nor can Sallazar cast a
Fireball or Thunderbolt spell at the Imps, because the
space is too restricted. For the first two Attack Rounds,
the Imps will continue to pour boiling oil over you
and you must lose 3 STAMINA points each round, but
you should still roll dice for Attack Strengths in the
usual way to see whether you damage them There-
after, the Imps fight with long needles, which cause you
only 1 point of damage if they hit you. Fight the Imps
together.

SKILL STAMINA
First CASTLE IMP 5 4
Second CASTLE IMP 5 4

If you win, you get through to the Imps’ little living
chamber and take what meagre treasure they have:
only 1 Gold Piece and some scraps of nuts and tubers
(add z to your Provisions), Crawling back southwards,
you can open the door to the east, if you haven't done
so before (turn to 13), or return to the main castle
(turn to 3)

243-244

243
The arrow is cursed, and you lose 1 point each of
Initial SKILL, STAMINA and LUCK! Tum to 262,

244
You have made your way into the Chancellery where
the kings of Amarillia kept their treasure! Of course
much has been looted but, to your delight, there is a
Tower Chest here! After opening it, you must Test
vour Spot Skill If you are successful, tum to 17
Otherwise, you leave here, and now you must open a
door in the Throne Room which you haven't opened
before; will this be:

The door in the west wall?

The central door in the north wall?

The westernmost door in the north
wall? Tum to 282

Tum to 390
Tum to 91
245-246

245

The horrific, grinning face of a madman, dripping with
blood, stares at you from the face of this malign card.
As you stare at it, the eyes of the image begin to glow
and the face contorts into a murderous grimace, and it
feels as if the imprisoned homicidal maniac is somehow
trying to struggle out of the card itself to get at youl!
You drop the card and run in terror. Test your Luck; if
you are Lucky, you manage to clamber across the rope
bridge above the chasm of the Heartfire and make
your way back to the-castle, so turn to 357 to explore
elsewhere. If you are Unlucky, you plunge headlong
into the chasm itself, and your adventure ends here!

246
The onyx staff has four symbols on it: lion, chevron,
goblet and star. If you have spent a Magic Point to
activate the staff (or if you do so now), you may be
able to use it to deal the monstrous Ogre a mortal
blow. IF you know which symbol can defeat him, and
if you have also found a heraldic design on a chest
with that symbol upon it, you know how many

247

symbols were on that chest, and what colour they
were. Convert the letters of the colour into numbers
using the code A = 1,B = 2, C = 3, etc. Add the
numbers together, add 8 to come to a final total, then
multiply that by the number of the symbols you found
on the chest. (Thus, for example, if you think that the
lion defeats the Ogre, and you had found four white
lions inscribed on a chest, you would turn to paragraph
292: WHITE = 23 + 8+ 9+ 20 + 5 = 65;
adding 8 gives 73, and you would multiply that total
by 4.) Turn to the paragraph you have calculated; if the
name of the symbol isn’t the fourth word you read in
that paragraph, you are wrong and should return to
paragraph 166 to continue fighting. You should also
do this if you have the staff but do not know which
symbol defeats Groaol.

247

Test your Luck. If you are Sallazar, you may subtract 2
from the total rolled on the dice; if you are Stubble,
you must add 1 to the total rolled; if you are Anvar,
you must add 2 to the total rolled, If you are Lucky,
turn to 270. If you are Unlucky, tum to 360,

248-249

248

You push open the double doors leading to the west
wing of the castle and find yourself gazing down a
long, long passageway that stretches before you — but
a malign, undead presence awaits you here! The mad-
dened shade of a castle knight, who has been tortured
most horribly by servants of evil, is now too crazed to
distinguish you from one of its old tormentors. You
will not be able to flee; the Spectre will chase you
anywhere you go. If you do not have a magic weapon
to fight the Spectre and if you have no other means
of destroying it by magic, you will perish here,
since non-magical weapons have no effect upon this
creature

SPECTRE SKILL 10 STAMINA 14

if you win but the Spectre hit you even once, you
must roll one dice. [f you roll any number other than a
6, you must lose 1 point from both of your Current
and Initial sxitt through the life-draining touch of the
monster, You walk forward some forty metres to
teach the mid-way point of this long western passage-
way in order to take your bearings; turn to 36

249
Unfortunately Zagor cannot be harmed by non-magical

weapons, so your arrow is useless against him, His
spell drains 1 point from your Current skit and 2
points from your Current STAMINA, Turn to 29g and
choose another course of action for the next Attack

Round,

250-251

250
The wretched knight is sunk in depression and despair;
clearly he can offer you no help. If you want to ask
him about the knight with the magical flying sword in
the painting you have seen, though this may be
tactless, tum to 202. Otherwise, you must leave and
explore elsewhere; you can head south and then east-
wards (turn to 399) or northwards to the Passage of
Hawks (turn to 111).

251
Your entry awakens a pair of Orc guards who were
dozing peacefully, so you are able to strike one with a
free blow before they can react. They snatch up their
weapons to attack you but, backed into the doorway,
you can fight them one at a time.

SKILL STAMINA
First ORC 6 3
Second ORC 6 5

If you win, their armour and weapons are of little use
to you, but you gather some food from this guardroom
(add 2 to your Provisions) and there is a lantern here,
should you need to take it. Leaving this room, you can
return eastwards to explore (tum to 399) or go west-
wards to the right-hand turing in the passage (turn to

134).

252-254

252

Your reward for overcoming Grool is a Tower Chest,
plus a table laden down with looted castle wines and
preserved food (add 5 to your Provisions) on the
ballista platform, There is also a set of Dragonbone
keys here; 116 of them in all, although you spot one
huge one that is clearly the master key. If you are
Anvar or Braxus, tum to 393. Otherwise, you clamber
down the stone steps here and head to the main
passage outside the tower to explore elsewhere; turn
to 52

253
The symbol on the door detonates as the triangle
glows a brilliant orange colour and showers you with
flames; deduct 6 points from your STAMINA. If you are
Sallazar, however, you can Test your Skill and, if you
ate successful, you lose only 2 STAMINA points since
you manage to avoid the worst effects of this magical
hazard. But even you cannot open the door. Tum to

597

254
You slip the key into the lock and the door swings
open soundlessly. In a long, hall-like chamber left

255

untouched by the castle’s evil denizens, a row of
priests recline, embalmed after their deaths, in a row of
crystal caskets: Silk and velvet wall-hangingy are
draped round the walls, and symbols of the good gods
of Amarillia are inscribed everywhere. Closing the
door behind you, you inspect the bodies more closely.
One of therm ix holding an ornate silver staff and his
hands are resting on a golden sphere at its end, while
another has a silver signet ring set with an amethyst
on his right hand. A third carries a small wooden box
set with mother-of-pearl fastenings. All these items
look valuable. but are you willing to take fram the
dead? If you are not, search elsewhere: turn to 399.
Otherwise, if you open one of the caskets to take an
item, will this be:

The silvered staff? Tum to 309
The silver ring? Tum to 285
The wooden box? Turn to 80

255

The chaotic magic swirling around Castle Argent af-
fects you. If you drink any Potion, it will have little
effect: a Potion of Luck restores 1 point of Luck
only, and a Potion of Stamina will restore only a
few STAMINA points (roll one dice: this is the number
of STAMINA points you regain, to a maximum of
half your {nitial score). If you cast any spell, you
must Test your Luck: if you are Unlucky, the spell
will simply fail (if you are Lucky, your spell-casting
will work normally). Retum to the paragraph you
came from.

256~258

256
If you are Sallazar, you get no offers of work: wizards
are too puny to be dockers! You can try gambling if
you wish (tum to 32); if not, turn to 173. If you are
any of the other heroes, you earn 2 Gold Pieces in
return for some back-breaking work. Turn to 173

257

‘Grool, in the east tower, he has the barbarian axe. you
enow, He's 9 real brute, cunning and evil through and
through. He's even bigger than you are. But if you
want to be a hero of legend among your own people,
getting that axe is something you just have to do.
Forget the Dragon epg-hatcheries in the east wing,
though; there's nothing left there of any use.’ Return
10 23.

258
You are engaged in mortal combat with the crazed
Dark EIf, In the first Attack Round he will try to attack
you with @ Fireball spell, and if he has the higher
Attack Strength you will lose 4 syAmin points from
the burning flames that cover your body. If you have
the higher Attack Strength you strike him and ruin his

259

spell. Thereafter, the Dark EIf will fight with his
dagger. If at any time you decide to flee, turn to 198.

DARK ELF WIZARD SKILL 8

If you win, you can search the room. This takes some
time, however, since everything is so cluttered, so you
must eat a meal. Eventually you find 3 Gold Pieces, a
fine silk tapestry worth 4 Gold Pieces (if you can find
someone to sell it to}, a scroll with an Open spell
inscribed upon it and a Magic Ring. This is a good
haul, so gain 1 LUCK.paint. There is also a diary which
shows that the Dark Elf once served the Bane Demon
whose army decimated Castle Argent, and that he
lives in mortal fear of a ghostly wizard, Remstar, who
is said to be ‘beyond the Heartfires’. There is also
some gruesome notes concerning the Dark EIf’s in-
volvement in necromantic magic, creating mutated
monsters and using magic to animate them, with a
reterence to the ‘silver room’ where these experiments
were conducted. Now it’s time to leave here and
search elsewhere; turn to 376.

STAMINA 10

259
Behind the door with the shield inlay on it is a
barracks complex, a network of small parade chambers,
dormitories and the like. At the northern end of this
network of rooms is a broad east-west passage with

260

two doors, one with a lacquered blue coating and the
other with a similar coating of yellow lacquer. Will
you now:

Search the barracks thoroughly? Turn to 12
Open the blue door? Tum to 327
Open the yellow door? Turn to 205
Leave and search elsewhere? Turn to 64

260

The onyx staff bears four symbols on it: lion: chevron,
goblet and star. If you have spent a Magic Point to
activate the staff {or if you do so now), you may be
able to use it to deal the Dragon a mortal blow, If you
snow which symbol can defeat it; and if you have also
tound 4 heraldic design on a chest with that symbol
upon it, you know how many symbols were on’ that
chest, and what colour’ they were. Convert the letters
of the colour into numbers using the code A = 1, B
= 2, C = 5, etc, Add the numbers together then
multiply that total by the number of the symbols you
found on the chest (Thus, for example, if you think
that the chevron defeats the Dragon and you had
‘ound six white chevrons inscribed oh a chest you
would turn to paragraph 390: WHITE = 23+ 8+
9 + 20 + 5 = 05, and you would multiply that total
oy ©) Turn to the paragraph you have calculated. if
the name of the symbol isn't the fifth word you read
m that paragraph, you are wrong and you should
return to paragraph 180 lo decide what to do here.
You should also turn to 180 if you have the staff but
do not know which symbol defeats the Dragon,

‘
i é
7
'
‘ »
Al
5 oa :
‘ie
»* ;

ee
:

~_
iT

261-262

261

You are half-way down the corridor, and it seems to
have taken an eternity getting this far. As you strain
your eyes to see what lies ahead of you, a shambling
figure in rotting bandages lurches along the corridor
to attack you. The most powerful of the castle's
undead guardians, the Great Mummy’s rotting arms
reach forward to strangle the life out of youl! If you
can, and wish to, cast a Fireball spell at the Mummy,
tum to 356. If you have a lantern and you decide to
throw this at the Mummy, turn to 379. Otherwise,
turn to 288

262
You've triumphed! You have slain a Dragon single-
handed, a feat of which no more than a handful of men
on Amarillia can boast. And, of course, Dragons are
legendary for their treasure hoards — aren't they?
There is not a Gold Piece, not a gem, in sight! You
look around frantically and, in the north-east corner of
the platform floor, you find something very odd
indeed: there is a shimmering wheel pattern in the
floor, which now is beginning to turn and almost fade
even as you stare at it. As you look, the wheel spins
faster; but you can make out that it has six segments
and that each section has an image within it. The
Dragon must have hidden its treasure in the magical
sector of some extra-planar space and, now the Dragon
1s dead, the magical link is fading, You have time to
take two of the items you can see before the wheel
fades completely; if you spend a Luck point, you can
snatch three. However, you have no time to regain
263-264

lost STAMINA by drinking a Potion, eating some provi-
sions, etc. if you are to gather this treasure! Decide
which images you wish to reach out and grab. After
you have taken your two (or three) items, turn to 121,

Gold Turn to 106
Gems Turn to 181
Wooden chest Turn to 291
Potion bottle Turn to 328
Glowing arrow Turn to 243
Handful of dust Tum to 213

263
Beating down the door, you trigger a vicious trap: a
spring-loaded spear hurtles from the wall behind you
and strikes you in the back. Deduct 4 points from your
STAMINA, but you manage to force the door open at
last. Turn to 83.

264
The Zagor-Demon goes into a frenzy! Test your Luck.
If you are Lucky, it collapses as it thrashes helplessly
about; turn to 54 If you are Unlucky, in its wild
flailing it will strike you and you must deduct 4 points
from your STAMINA. If you are still alive, turn to 54

265

265

You fail to spot a tripwire trap and fal! heavily to the
ground. From two doors on either side of you you
hear cries of alarm, and you get to your feet just as a
Great Ore comes rushing through each door! What's
worse, in each room there is another creature, dragging
itself off a bunk bed and putting on its armour. You
have to overcome four of these Orcs! Fight each pair
together; when you have killed the first pair, the
second pair will be ready to fight

SKILL STAMINA
First GREAT ORC q 6
Second GREAT ORC 9 6
Third GREAT ORC 9 6
Fourth GREAT ORC 7 6

If you win, you make a hurried search of the guard
chambers on the other side of the doors. Save for
mouldy and half-rotten food and befouled Orcish
clothes, your search turns up only a single Gold Piece.
You walk further along the entrance hall. In front of
you there is a small door to your left and one to your
right, and a pair of larger doors directly ahead. Will
you now open:

The right-hand door? Turn to 20
The left-hand door? Turn to 318
The large doors ahead? Turn to 376

266-267

266

You insert your fingers into the hole and suffer a
painful rat bite for your pains! Lose 1 sTAMINA point.
The hole is too small for you to use a weapon of any
size, but you can thrust a knife inside to attack the rat
(which will bite your hand again when you do). You
must subtract 2 from your Attack Strength while
trying to skewer the rodent, since you can't really see
what you're doing. For both you and the rat, a
successful hit here will cause only 1 point of STAMINA
damage. ‘

CASTLE RAT SKILL 6 STAMINA 2

If you win, you must Test your Skill, IF you are
successful, turn to 330. If you fail, turn to 128.

267

As you raise your weapon to strike the old man, he
picks up a golden lamp and rubs it hastily. A genie
appears before your startled eyes, simply crooks its
index finger at you — and you are rooted to the spot,
paralysed! Now you know why the Orcs of the castle
weren't able to kill the merchant before you got here,
but the realization comes too jate. Your adventure
ends here.

268-270

268
You have landed on a concealed pit trap! Below you
the ground simply gives way and opens up to reveal a
deep pit filled with spikes. You must leap forward to
avoid this, Test your Skill (add 2 to the dice roll if you
are Stubble). If you are successful tum to 26. If you
fail, turn to 191.

269

The door here is half ajar, and you push it open easily.
The room beyond must have been a guest chamber:
the comfort of the bed, furniture and rugs here suggest
that. It was looted long ago, of course. The bed sags
in the middle from Orcs jumping up and down on it,
and the fine rosewood table and chairs have had Orcish
names carved crudely into them. If you want to
make a prolonged search, tum to z. Otherwise, turn
to 33.

270
As you seat yourself in the hag’s chair and begin
your work, the spindle moves faster and faster until
you become dizzy, trying to keep your eyes focused
on it. Then it stops abruptly — it has fashioned a
magical garment for you! Roll one dice and consult

 ——
271

the table below to see what you have made for your-
self,

Dice Roll lfem
1-4 Lucky Neckerchief
5 Neckerchief of Invisibility
6 Neckerchief of Wizardry

A Lucky Neckerchief adds 1 to your Current and
Initial Luck (your Initial Luck cannot exceed 12, how-
ever), A Neckerchief of Invisibility can be used twice
during your adventure and its effect lasts for the
duration of a single combat: during this time you can
subtract 2 from the Attack Strength of any and all
enemies, since they cannot see you easily (this does
not work against Zagor or any Dragon). If you have a
Neckerchief of Wizardry, gain 1 point of Luck, for
this garment raises your Magic Points score to its full
Initial level — you can put this on at any time, except
during a combat (but its magic will work only once
for you) Now you leave and head for the great
wrought-iron door in the passageway outside Tum to

197

271
The passageway ends at a junction, To the east, a
short section leads to a door. To the west, a narrow

272-275

passage winds and twists further northwards and it
becomes a crawlway after a few metres. If you want to
open the door to the east tum to 13. If you want to
head west and then north, which means a crawl on
hands and knees, turn to 355. If you want to return to
the library and the passageway outside it, then explore
elsewhere, turn to 3.

272
You must Test your Luck twice during your ascent. If
you are Unlucky either time, the Dragon will wake up
and its huge head will breathe fire over you. If you are
Unlucky on the first dice roll, the Dragon breathes on
you twice; you must lose 6 staMINA points from each
attack! If you are Lucky the first time but Unlucky the
second time, you suffer only one attack from the
Dragon’s breath; lose 6 sTAMINA points. IF you are stil]
alive, you get to the platform at last; turn to 313.

273
The card shows a Giant. As you gaze at it for just a
second, something of the strength and might of giants
flows into you. You may add 4 to your Current
STAMINA score (you may exceed your IniHal score)
and gain 2 LUCK point. Turn to 299,

274-275

274
A gruesome trophy-room lies behind the door here.
Rows and rows of severed heads line the walls; ser-
vants of the Bone Demon decapitated many of the
castle’s defenders in the jails, and one of Mungus the
Jailer’s hobbies was shrinking and preserving them. In
this ghoulish auditorium, one row of heads seems to
have been exalted above the others, since there are
four heads individually mounted on wall-plaques, with
their names etched upon them. They are (or were):
Chanquin the Court Jester, Field Marshal Rabellan,
Count Reindrech of Cabaal and Dorrick the Castellan.
If you want to use a Magic Point to see whether you
can communicate with these heads in some way,
choose one to try to summon, then turn to 24. If you
cannot, or don’t wish to, do this, turn to 36 to explore
elsewhere in the west wing, or turn to 7 to return to
the Bronze Stride

275

You find yourself in a powder-room used by the
glitteringly beautiful women of Castle Argent before
its fall. Their valuable gilded mirrors, crystal scent-
bottles and jewellery boxes have been pillaged, and
make-up lies in small mounds on the broken and
vandalized marbled tables. If you are Anvar or Stubble,
you leave here; you can make your way along the
north passageway opposite, if you haven't explored
that area before (turn to 385), or go back east along
the Passage of Hawks (turn to 1112) If you are Braxus
or Sallazar, turn to 15.
276-277

276

The Dragon is young and its fire-breathing ability is
not yet fully developed, but it is still dangerous. Each
Attack Round, if the Dragon has the higher Attack
Strength, you must roll one dice. If you roll 1-4, the
Dragon claws and bites, and you must deduct 2 points
from your STAMINA. If you roll 5 or 6, the Dragon
breathes fire at you and you lose 4 STAMINA points!

YOUNG WAR DRAGON $sKILL10 STAMINA 16

If you win, there is an.anguished roar from somewhere
far, far off in the Great Tower as the Dragon falls at
your feet. It sounds like the noise a very, very angry
Dragon might make ... Shivering a little, you gather
up the Dragon’s treasure hoard, You find 6 Gold
Pieces, a small pile of tiny moonstones worth 10 Gold
Pieces, a Magic Ring, and, in an ivory tube sealed with
wax at both ends, a scroll containing the Skill Spell. If
you want to take a close look at whatever it is that is
glowing inside the crystal dome, turn to 338. If you
would rather explore elsewhere in the west wing, turn
to 36; if you want to return to the Bronze Stride, tum
to 7,

277
You slip the two long Dragonbone master-keys into
the locks in the crystal doors and they open, In front
of you a great wooden stairway rises in a graceful
curve to an archway high above. The great Jaw Arch-
way is aptly named: it appears to be crafted from the
jawbone of some impossibly vast, reptilian monster, a
deathly leprous yellow-white in colour, forbidding in

277

its sheer size and grim appearance. You step forward
and, as you do, the doors behind you slam shut. A
gloating, eerie laugh mocks you as it resonates around
the high-vaulted chamber of the stairway; Zagor awaits
you, and you will not return alive unless you have
slain him! You stride forward grimly and begin your
ascent of the stairway.

Some minutes later, you throw open the great doors
below the Jaw Archway and grit your teeth as you
sense the treacherousness of what lies before you. A
corridor stretches out some twelve metres into the
distance, and its walls are lined with skulls set into the
stone, The walls look as if the skulls where thrown
into liquid stone which then congealed, trapping them
on its surface, The effect is deeply disturbing and, as
you edge forward towards a chamber you can see
ahead, you have to fight back a rising sense of panic.
Clearly some magic here is affecting you, making you
sweat and tremble with fear! If you can (and wish to)
cast a Jump spell here, turn to 262. If you cannot, or
do not wish to, do this, tum to 296

278-280

278
If you have the higher Attack Strength this Attack
Round, turn to 319. If Zagor has the higher Attack
Strength, turn to 115.

279
The glaring light of your spell reveals a highly unpleas-
ant scene within the Feast Hall, for the tables and
chairs are crawling with fat, sleek, black rats! You
make a mental note not to go in there! You decide to
take a chance and open the door in the west wall of
the kitchen, and you find that beyond it lies a small,
narrow passageway, off which you see a couple of
tiny boxrooms the domestic servants must have occu-
pied, and some large larder cupboards. It’s highly
unlikely there’s anything edible left after all these
years, but, if you want to make a search of them, turn
to 27. Otherwise, turn to 476 and search elsewhere in
the castle

280
You are standing in the middle of a north-facing
passage. On your left is a door bearing a ceramic
plaque with a silver crown design. To your right is a
plain wooden door. Directly ahead of you, the passage-

281-282

way ends at an east-west junction. Explore an area
you have not visited before. Will you:

Turn to 112
Turn to 55
Tum to 43

Open the door to your left?
Open the door to your right?
Head for the passage junction?

281

The room beyond the door here is a cross between a
torture chamber and a mad wizard’s laboratory. It is
strewn with bones and huge jars filled with the limbs
and organs of various creatures, and you hastily avert
your eyes from the gruesome scene. If you decide to
search this foul place thoroughly, tum to 303. Other-
wise, turn to 51 to search elsewhere.

The bedchamber of ‘the kings of Amarillia lies before
you; looted and ransacked, little of value remains in it.
You find a single Gold Piece on the floor here but
that’s all so you leave, and now you must open a door

in the Throne Room which you haven't investigated
before, Will this be:

The door in the west wall? Turn to 390
The central door in the north wall? Turn to 91
The easternmost door in the north

wall? Turn to 244
283-284

283
You force open one of the doors inside the temple and
fnd two Orcs clad in part-armour, with weapons
readied. One of them turns to face you while the other
stands over the cowering body of a terrified, middle-
aged man, dressed in white robes and lying prone on
the floor. One of the Orcs lets fall a crystal vial of
liquid he was clearly just about to drink. You have to
fight, but make a note that if you win the combat here
you will be able to take this vial of liquid. It is a
magical Potion of Invisibility and can be drunk immedi-
ately before any one combat. [ts effects last for the
duration of that combat, and during this time you can
subtract 2 from the Attack Strength of your enemies,
since they cannot see you easily (this does not work
against Zagor or any Dragon). Now, if you want to
attack the Orc facing you, turn to 35. If you want to
attack the second Orc, you can do so, but the first Orc
will get in a free blow against you as you force your
way past him, so you must lose 2 STAMINA points, If
you decide to attack the second Orc anyway, tum to

284
Trying to flee is hopeless; the yells of the Orc leader
soon summon a horde of Orcs from nearby rooms and

285-286

they swiftly despatch you. You end up as a tasty
roast, a change from the Orc’s usual diet of rats. Your
adventure ends here.

285

As you open the casket, a sudden gust of foul-smelling
wind blows through the room. The chaotic and evil
magic of Zagor has been drawn to the body of the priest,
and in a matter of seconds the body decomposes and
begins to crawl with maggots. Horribly, the corrupted
corpse then sits bolt upright and its lividly glowing
eyeballs glare at you as it reaches out with skeletal hands
to strangle you! If you want to flee, you can Test your
Skill; if you are successful, you run before you can come
to harm, so turn to 399 to explore elsewhere. If you fail,
or if you choose to fight, turn to 50.

286
The dreaded Corridor of Fear awaits you — can you
sustain your will and not be slowed down by the terrible
phantoms of fear and despair that await you here? Test
your Luck. If you are Lucky, you get through the corridor
in 50 seconds; if you are Unlucky, it takes 100 seconds (a
Potion of Flying will not alter these times). With
mounting desperation you race ever onwards; turn to 8!

| ig
(| Was pa

‘
nC

287

287

The green-lacquered door opens readily, and the cham-
ber beyond appears very strange for it is filled with
dead vegetation! You can see a wooden chest, half-
buried under trailing vines in the distance, so you
enter in order to take a closer look. As you do so, a
huge shape arises from the half-rotten plant remains;
roughly human-shaped, the thing is composed of vines,
and it reaches out for you, its knobbled ‘limbs’ trailing
twitching vines along the ground. If you want to flee,
turn to 5. If you decide to fight the Plant Golem, do
your best to despach it swiftly. Each time the Plant
Golem wins an Attack Round, you must Test your
Skill. If you fail, it has wrapped some of its trailing
vines round your legs and arms, making if harder for
you to move freely and fight it, and you must subtract
i from your Attack Strength. It can do this up to three
times as the thing binds you tighter and tighter in its
suffocating grasp!

PLANT GOLEM SKILL 8 STAMINA 13

If you win, to your dismay you find as you open it
that the chest here is not a Tower Chest but has a
heraldic device painted inside its lid; this shows seven
red lions on a green background. Inside the chest you
find 4 Gold Pieces and a Potion of Stamina; drinking
this restores STAMINA equal to half its Initial total
(round fractions up) and you can drink it at any time
except during combat. Now, leaving this room and
entering the Passage of Hawks, will you head west
(turn to 5) or east to the crossroads (turn to 92)?

288-290

288
Deduct any points from the Mummy’s sTAMINA if
you have already struck it with a fiery attack.

GREAT MUMMY SKILL 10 STAMINA 22

If you win, you press on along this accursed corridor
towards a cavernous chamber beyond. As you ap-
proach, swirling patterns of light flash from the cham-
ber, and you have to screw up your eyes in a squint to
see what is inside. Turn to 180,
289

You must Test your Luck while you are pleading that
you do not want to attack the Dark EIf. if you are
Lucky, he won't attack: turn to 231 If you are Unlucky,
he attacks immediately with a brilliant bolt of fire as
he completes his spell; deduct 4 points from your
STAMINA because of the action of the searing flames,
and you must now either fight (turn to 258) or flee
(furn to 198).

290
You have to fight the hag and her cat, Wacket,
together. The hag will cast a Fireball spell at you in
the first two Attack Rounds (if she has the highest
Attack Strength, you will have to lose 5 STAMINA
points from the fiery assault). Afterwards, she will
attack you with her poisoned dagger (lose 2 point
from your STAMINA because of the weapon, plus 1
extra point from the poison). The cat will try to bite
you; if it succeeds, you must lost 1 sTAMINA point,
but, if you roll zz or 22 on the dice for the cat's

291-292

Attack Strength, you must turn immediately to 336. If
at any time you cast a spell against the hag, turn to
209.

SKILL STAMINA
HAG 8 9
WACKET THE CAT 8 4

If you win, turn to 375

291
This is a Tower Chest! If you open this without
triggering any trap, you may gain 1 LUCK point. Tum
to 262

292
A whirl of green stars will fly from the onyx staff
upon command, circling the Dragon’s head and bury-
ing themselves in it, causing great pain. One star will
be impaled in the Dragon’s head each Attack Round,
up to the eighth (if the combat lasts that long). Each
star will cause the Dragon to lose 2 STAMINA points:
after the first star has struck it, you may subtract 2
from its Attack Strength due to its pain and confusion.
If you have spent a Magic Point to activate the staff,
you can unleash this effect as soon as you get on to
the Dragon’s platform — but how will you get there?
Will you:

Use’a Potion of Flying (if you have

one)? Turn to 364
Climb one of the rope-ladders? Turn to 272
Enter the swirling vortex, hoping to

be carried upwards? Turn to 334
293-294

293

The Colossus collapses at last! Weary with the effort,
you drag yourself over to the wooden chest and
examine it carefully. The small shield design on its lid
shows a pair of yellow goblets on a blue background.
Inside the chest you find 3 Gold Pieces, a Magic Ring
and a scroll with the Skill Spell written on it Gain 1
LUCK point! Now it’s time to search elsewhere. If you
haven't explored everything in the barracks area, you
can open the yellow door (turn to 208) or search the
dormitories and paradé rooms thoroughly (turn to 12);
alternatively, you can leave the barracks and explore
elsewhere (turn to 64).

fn,

294
This secret chamber was used by the mightiest defend-
ers of Castle Argent to draw upon their inner strengths
and to fortify themselves for great combats. The magic
of this chamber allows you to sacrifice 1 point each of
Current and Initial cuck and gain in return either 1
point of Current and Initial skit. or 2 points of
Current and Initial sramMinA. You do not have to
transmute your Luck in this way if you do not wish
to do so, however, and the transmutation will be
temporary (affecting only your combat with Zagor).
Choose what you want to do here, then be sure to

295-296

take every precaution you can before you meet your
tinal enemy. You can open the entrance to Zagor's
chamber normally (turn to 304) or by using an Open
spell (turn to 522),

295

Searching through the cavern, you must eat a meal;
eventually you find a passageway hidden behind a
large boulder that you push aside with much grunting
and sweating at the exertion. The passage is dark and,
if you do not have a lantern or a Light spell to see by,
you will stumble and fall, losing 2 sTAMINA points:
you must also subtract 2 from your Attack Strength in
any combats here (until you retum across the rope
bridge). Peering along the winding and twisting tunnel,
you see a single side-passage to your right and, some
metres further along, the passage terminates in another,
smaller cavern where you think you can see a faint
gleam of gold. If you want to take the side-passage,
turn to 208. If you want to make for the cavern ahead,
tum to to.

296

It is desperately hard going, dragging yourself even
half-way down this corridor Your feet feel as if your
boots are lined with lead, and your calves ache abomin-
ably. Test your Luck. If you are Lucky, you keep
trudging on as normal, but if you are Unlucky you
must lose 1 from your Current sKILL score for as long
as you are in this corridor. You must now Test your
Luck again! If you are Lucky, tum to 261. If you are
Unlucky, turn to 3147.
297-298

297
You have a certain amount of time to get to the
Heartfires; you do not know how much time but from
now on you must keep track of the number of seconds
it takes you to get there. If you have picked up any
Gold Zagors, you have already taken i100 seconds.
You have taken 80 seconds for each portion of provi-
sions you have forced down. Either drinking a Potion
or casting a spell will have taken you 20 seconds. If
you have drunk a Potion of Flying, however, you will
be able to move more swiftly and unless you are told
otherwise, you can halve the number of seconds you
take for all movement to the Heartfires (you will be
told how many seconds you need for various move-
ments in later paragraphs). You may stop and perform
any of these actions during your journey, but you
must add the appropriate number of seconds to the
time elapsed: if you want to perform any action, you
must make a note of the paragraph number where you
stop and perform that action, then turn to 255. Now
you pick up Zagor’s body; turn to 85

298

A great stone stairway rises in front of you, giving
access to the main level of the castle above — and
bringing you closer to the Great Tower where Zagor
lies! As you cross a stone bridge, you feel strong magical
energies playing round you; you regain 4 points of
STAMINA, 1 point of tuck and 1 Magic Point! Feeling
invigorated and refreshed, you open the door at the top
of the stairway and stride across an empty chamber to
another door in the far wall; you open it. Turn to 399.

299

299

The Zagor-Demon screams its fury from its fell
throne. “You dare stand before me? I have not been
banished from my own world to be confronted by a
wretch like you!’ He spits contempt and rage! Now
battle is truly joined. Zagor stands at the head of
the steps, preparing to cast a deadly spell. His skiLt
score is 16 (less a reduction for any Golden Talis-
mans you may have), so use this to work out Attack
Strengths and keep track of the damage you do to
him (you may subtract this from his sTAMINA score
when you finally get into hand-to-hand combat with
him) You can either try to get closer to him or
attack him from a distance. If you want to get near
to him, you can use a Potion of Flying, if you have
one (tum to 383), run up the steps (turn to 207) —
or you have a third option: if you suspect the steps
may be trapped and if you have a magical weapon,
you can use some of the magic from that weapon
to cleave through the steps and create a passage
upwards; if you do this, however, you will lose at
least some of the magic your weapon has (if you
choose this option, turn to 1233). If you want to
stand your ground and attack Zagor from a distance ~
at least to begin with — choose one of the following
options:

Use a catapult? Tur to 349
Use a spell? Tum to 278
Use a bow? Turn to 249
Use a Magic Arrow? Tum to 93
Throw acid? Tum to 169
300-301

300
‘Pandemonium’ would be a modest description of the
Throne Room which lies behind the iron-clad doors.
The room is filled with drooling, mindless creatures
slobbering and grimacing at one another. in one corner,
something that may once have been an Elf plucks
randomly at a seven-stringed instrument, picking out a
hideous refrain, A lethargic Ogre thumps periodically
at a tympani to add to the din, while mindless Goblins
blow into conches and flutes. However, not everyone
here is a mindless creature; many of the monsters are
capable and dangerous. Nearest you are two armoured
Orcs, then four Great Orcs are standing together; then
come two Orc mutants, and behind them is a pair of
Zombies wearing ebony-black circlets round their heads.
Behind them, in the far distance, the figure of Thulu,
Great Chieftain of the Ores, sits, semi-comatose, on his
throne, a grotesquely misshapen crown covering his
swollen head and ghastly bony protuberances thrusting
out through the holes in the crown. If your preparation
included disguising yourself as a Zombie or drinking a
Potion of Invisibility, turn to 19. Otherwise, turn to 39.

301
The monster inside the foul-smelling room leaps out
to attack you! The giant spider here is covered in foul-
smelling slime and ordure, so you must deduct 1 point
from your Attack Strength when fighting it since the
stench nauseates and weakens you (unless you are
Stubble, who suffers no penalty). Your monstrous
enemy raises its slime-dripping mandibles and massive
clacking claws to strike you down!

eee

502

GIANT SPIDER SKILL 7

If you win but the Giant Spider struck you even once,
you now have a foul disease from the filth and muck
on its body — Blood Plague! If this is left untreated,
you develop septic boils and painful sores over your
body, and you will lose z point from your Current and
Initial STAMINA each time you enter a room with any
monster in it. If your Inifial sTAMINA score reaches
zero, you die. You must take care where you explore,
and seek help swiftly: you need a Healer, or Plague
Antidote, to restore your Initial sTAMINA and cure the
plague. There is none to be found in the chamber the
Giant Spider occupied, for this area is simply the castle
latrines, befouled by Orcs and utterly disgusting. Tum
to 218 to explore elsewhere.

STAMINA $

| 502
As you race away, a deep rumbling sound rises from
the belly of the Mutant behind you and a wave of
corrosive acid splashes across your back; lose 4
STAMINA points. If you are still alive you run for dear
life back to the passage beyond the laboratories, then
down to its end, vowing never to return here! Turn to

45.

303-304

303

You find 2 vials containing powerful, lime-green corro-
sive acid among the equipment in this laboratory. You
can use the vials in combat by flinging them at an
enemy instead of using a weapon; if you have the
higher Attack Strength, the acid hits and causes 4
points of damage. It may also be useful in other ways
too, Now turn to §1 to search elsewhere.

304
Before you confront your nemesis, do two things.
First, make sure you have a record of all the bonuses
you have to your Attack Strength in the combat to
come, and what magic you may be able to use (don’t
forget that a Potion of Invisibility is useless against
Zagor). Second, count up how many Golden Talismans
and Silver Daggers you have collected from the Tower
Chests you have opened. Each Golden Talisman you
possess reduces Zagor’s skit (as shown in a later
paragraph) by 1 point; each Silver Dagger you possess
reduces his stAMINA score (as shown in a later para-
graph) by 2 points, so be sure to make the appropriate
reductions when the time comes ... Now you stand in
the Throne Room of the Zagor-Demon, Your adver-
sary awaits you; turn to 391.

305-306

305

At the very last moment you find a sliding panel on
the west wall of the pit! You struggle to force it open,
then hide in the pitch darkness beyond. Above you,
Orcish voices growl. ‘Wretched thing’s set itself orf
again,’ one of the Orcs yells, ‘Better tell Skunkhead to
teset the lever.’ You have to wait a long time before
you can be sure that the Ores have really gone, so
you must eat a meal. Rather than re-enter the pit, you
decide to climb up the stone steps on the other side of
the secret door, and you follow a winding passage to
another secret door. Stepping out of it, you find
yourself emerging from a hidden wall-panel at the far
eastern end of the Passage of Hawks. Setting off
westwards, you reach a crossroads; to the north, the
pit trap has clearly been reset. If you decide to explore
that way again, turn to 389. If you would rather head
on westwards to the mid-way point of the Passageway
of Hawks in order to search somewhere you haven’t
explored yet, turn to 5.

306
The magical circles are protective; the occupant of this
room is clearly terrified of some form of magical attack
by a wizard, and you guess he isn’t going to parley

307-308

with you. If you trade spells in combat with the Dark
Elf who lives here, you must subtract 2 from your
Attack Strength when you cast a spell because of
these defences. If you want to attack the Dark EIf, turn
to 258. If you decide to mun, turn to 198

307
Test your Luck If you are Lucky, you find a hand
catapult with a glowing black stone in its leather
pouch which certainly proves interesting. You can use
this to attack from a distance, much like using a bow;
but if you hit your opponent with it, he will lose 6
STAMINA points because of the powerful enchantment
on the stone. You can get only one shot from the
catapult, however, and you cannot use it in hand-to-
hand combat (if you are Stubble or Sallazar, you must
subtract 1 from your SKILL when using this unfamiliar
weapon). If you are Unlucky, you do not find this
weapon. Tum to 52 to explore elsewhere in the east
wing of the castle, or tum to 7 to return to the Bronze
Stride.

308
Tall and silent, Dorrick’s ghost stands solemnly before
you. Dorrick fell on his own sword in order to avoid
the dreadful tortures of the Demon; his spirit, though
troubled, is not insane, unlike so many of the castle’s
ghosts. You tell Dorrick about your quest and what

309

you have achieved. He is impressed, but he shakes
his head sadly. ‘Unspeakable evil lies in the Great
Tower, Beyond the Crystal Doors lies not only the
monster who is taking demonic form even as we
speak, but also a mighty War Dragon. To overcome
one would be the stuff of legend. To slay both — it
is hard to believe that even one such as yourself
could accomplish such a thing” He ponders for a
moment. ‘But, perhaps, the Orb of the Templar ..
that might help. Listen: next door to this place the
Grand Templar of the Court prowls the shadows
still. He is a mindless thing, his heart and will de-
stroyed by fell magic, and he is very powerful. If you
search behind the fireplace in his chambers, you will
find a secret compartment. Some power may still
reside in the Orb. He always used it in battle to
strengthen himself, That is all 1 can tell you” The
ghost fades slowly from view. If you have already
been in the Templar’s chambers, you set off there
again now; turn to 348. If you have not visited
them yet, turn to 228

509

As you open the casket, the body of the priest rises to
its feet and, its face suffused with fury, points the staff
at you and hurls you out of this chamber with a great
bolt of magical force. If you are Sallazar, deduct 2
points fom your STAMINA and tum to 399. Otherwise,
you lose 4 STAMINA points and are teleported to
another part of the castle. Roll one dice. If you roll 1
or 2, turn to 399; if you roll 3 or 4, turn to 268; if you
roll 5 or 6, tum to 78.

310-311

310
You fall to your knees to tip the body of the Zagor-
Demon into the chasm of the Heartfires; as you do so
however, you lose your balance and pitch forward
yourself! You have saved Amarillia, and the bards of
the land will sing their songs, guaranteeing your
everlasting fame throughout all the lands ... but they
will be a posthumous honour!

311

‘But there’s another sword as well; only you could make
best use of that. It’s currently owned by a knight. I don’t
know whether il’s alive, or what it is; all I've seen with
my limited magic is a real brute of a thing, clad head to
toe in spiked, black plate mail. I know it’s behind the
northem doors along the Bronze Stride, the great
passageway north of the Throne Room’ Return to 22.
312

312
Bethel’s chambers have been ransacked but, to your
surprise, a shortsword is lying on the table — and three
dead Orcs are lying on the floor! The bloodstains
round their bodies look relatively fresh, too. As you
are pondering this scene, the sword speaks to you!

‘Ym an Ore-slaying sword,’ it murmurs nonchalantly
(and a bit needlessly, given the presence of the corpses
here). ‘If you have magical strength, I can help you. I
just love killing Orcs. But I need magic to help me to
fight to the best of my ability!’

If you want to take and use this sword, you need
Magic Points to use it effectively. If you are fighting
any kind of Orc, you can spend 1 Magic Point to
activate the sword. This can be done in addition to
making a normal attack, but not in addition to casting
a spell. When you have done so, roll one dice, and add
2 to the number rolled. For this number of Attack
Rounds, the sword will fly through the air and attack
any single Ore (including Great Ores, Mutant Orcs,
etc., but not Thulu, the Orc chieftain) you can see in
the room where combat is taking place. You may
choose which Orc to strike. Each time it strikes, its
target must lose 3 STAMINA points! The sword attacks
only Orcs in this way, however, not any other kind of
monster, Once its attacks are expended, you can
always use another Magic Point to activate it again.
Now you can make a general search of the rooms
here, if you haven't done so (turn to 159), or return to
the main passageway outside and search elsewhere
(turn to 4%).

313

313
The huge War Dragon fights with the fury and might
that decimated Castle Argent’s defenders. Can you
possibly survive its fury? If you do not have a magic
weapon, you cannot affect the War Dragon, and you
will perish here!

WAR DRAGON SKILL 15

When the War Dragon wins an Attack Round, roll
one dice to determine the type of attack it has used
and the damage it inflicts

STAMINA 20

Dice Roll Attack and Damage
1-2 Claw strike: lose 2 STAMINA points
3 Bite: lose 3 STAMINA points
4 Tail sweep (glancing blow): lose 1
STAMINA point
5-0 Fire breath: lose 4 STAMINA points

If you win, turn to 262.
314-316

514
In a small, bare chamber behind the door a figure clad

head to toe in lacquered black plate mail confronts
you. ‘Prepare to die,’ he says emotionlessly as he hefts
a great, two-handed sword to strike at you. Terror
grips you: you must do battle with the Dark Knight of
Castle Argent! If you have an onyx staff with you,
turn to 241. If you do not, fight on!

DARK KNIGHT SKILL 12 STAMINA 17

If you win, and if you are Braxus, turn immediately to
46, Otherwise, tum to 396.

315
Perhaps the capricious EIf will talk to you, but maybe
he prefers not to, Roll two dice. Add 2 to the total
rolled if you are Stubble (since the Elf doesn’t like
Dwarfs much), and subtract 1 if you have a thief
hireling with you. If you bribe the EIf with some gold,
he is more likely to talk; you must offer him 4 Gold
Pieces (in which case you can subtract 3 from the
number rolled). If the final total is 8 or higher, turn to
239, If the total is 7 or less, turn to 9.

316
‘Thank you, you have served me well,’ you say to the
little scamp of a thief. He offers to sell you one final
object: he has a lockpick he uses, and he offers this to
you for 2 Gold Pieces, If you buy this, you can use it
for opening Tower Chests; using a Jockpick, you are
allowed to Test your Skill when opening Tower Chests
and trying to avoid the traps (this saves LUCK points,
317-318

and thus is very useful!), Decide whether or not to buy
this, then return to the paragraph you came from.

317
You didn’t spot the concealed pit trap in time. You fall
several metres on to hard stone; deduct 3 points from
your STAMINA. You claw your way back up and out,
but you cannot restore your STAMINA straight away
by eating food, drinking a Potion, or by any other
means; you are just too desperate to get through this
corridor. Turn to 262..

318
You have entered a huge drill hall, a marching square
with banners and replica weapons lining the walls — or
such as remain after the rampagings of the servants of
the Demon. A half-burned pile of smashed-up weap-
onry and tom pennants and banners lies at the foot of
the far wall. Far above you, great oak-beams criss-
cross the ceiling. If you want to walk over and search
through it, tum to 394, but beware, your footfalls echo
loudly in this high-ceilinged chamber! Alternatively,
you can leave and open the door opposite you {turn
to 20) or make for the double doors at the far end of
the entrance hall (turn to 376),

|e

319-321

319
Your spell has no effect on Zagor, because he had cast
a Magic Screen spell before you entered. However, his
spell will cause you to lose 2 point from your Current
SKILL and 2 points from your Current sTAMINA
(unless you too have a Magic Screen spell of your
own, in which case this is now dispelled). However,
his Magic Screen is now also dispelled and you can
attack him with spells in later Attack Rounds. Turn
to 31.

320
The lock on this door is smashed, so you gently push
it open and Gnd yourself in what must once have been
a great library, Alas, the beautiful leather-bound books
and illuminated manuscripts have been destroyed in an
orgy of senseless rampaging; the Orcs have even built
a bonfire of books and bookcases, though a few of the
latter still stand, empty and forlorn, against the walls.
There may be some clues left in the debris, if you are
willing to spend some time in searching. If you decide
to do this, you must eat a meal, then turn to 373. If
you decide that this shambles isn’t worth investigating,
turn to 3 and explore elsewhere,

521
As you cast your spell the door opens soundlessly,
and a mirthless voice says gloatingly, ‘How good of
you to waste a little of your pitiful magic on such a
simple little spell. Speaking for myself, | would never
bother with anything as trivial as a trap on the door.
Do come in!’ Turn to 304.
5322-323

aaa

The design, though crude, is clearly that of a Barbarian
Axe. Some intuition tells you that the axe is magical,
perhaps a very powerful weapon in your hands. You
make a note to try to find this creature, Grool, who
possesses it and destroy him! Now you can try explor-
ing the next cell-block (turn to 210) or go elsewhere in
the jails (turn to 51); if you wish to leave the jails and
returm to the main castle, turn to 357.

323

The wretched ghost of the court jester stands before
you. His hair is white, prematurely aged by the terror
of unspeakable tortures, and he is quite insane. He
stretches forward to attack you at once, and you know
that the combination of his madness and ghostly
power would be too great for you to withstand: one
touch from him could destroy your mind! You flee
back to the Bronze Stride, leaving the moaning ghost
prowling the west wing, to which you cannot now
return. Turn to 7.

324-326

324
You know you must fling the body of the Zagor-
Demon into the Heartfires. What you do not know is
how swiftly you must do this. You must decide now —
not knowing how much time you have, as the Great
Tower shudders around you — if you wish to do
anything before you begin your descent with the
body. You can perform as many actions as you wish;
eating some Provisions, drinking a Potion or casting a
spell are the most obvious options. Decide which
actions you wish to take before you set off for the
Heartfires, then turn to 297.

325
Everything here is as it appears to be: lifeless and
decayed. You have merely wasted time, and you must
eat a meal during your search. Turn to 52 to search else-
where

326
You need 150 seconds to climb down safely, burdened
with a body. Turn to 286 to press onwards!

327-328

527

Pushing open the blue door, you find yourself in the
Royal Statuary: great, life-sized statues of the kings of
Amarillia once lined the grand, blue-flecked marbled
walls here. They are shattered now — possibly by
magic, you suspect: fiery blast-marks pepper the walls
behind the remains of the statues. However, there is
one statue here that remains intact: it is several metres
high, and it comes to life with a very threatening
gesture as you enter. An expressionless warrior in
shape, the enormous statue has a massive, spiked,
stone club in one stone fist and a long, slender whip in
the other. It is clearly a formidable enemy, Behind it
you can see a wooden chest, decorated with a small!
heraldic symbol of some kind, so it’s guarding some-
thing which may be valuable. If you decide to fight it,
you must do so immediately; turn to 126. Alterna-
tively, you can flee by closing the door here; in that
case, will you:

Open the yellow door, if you haven't

done so already? Turn to 205
Search the barracks thoroughly, if you
haven't done so? Turn to 12
Leave the barracks and explore
elsewhere? Tum to 64
328

You have acquired a magical Potion of your choice:
you may have a Potion of Luck, of Stamina or of Flying.
You may drink a Potion at any time except during
combat, and the effects are as follows: a Potion of

329-3351

Luck restores 1-3 LUCK points (roll one dice and halve
the number rolled, rounding fractions up); a Potion of
Stamina restores lost staMINA points equal to half
your Initial score (round fractions up); a Potion of
Flying simply allows you to fly. Tum to 262.

329
You have been fortunate enough to come upon two
Ore guards sleeping in dereliction of their duty, so
you despatch them swiftly. Gain 1 Luck point. Their
armour and weapons are of little use to you, but you
gather some food from this guardroom (add 2 to your
Provisions) and there is a lantern here should you need
it, Leaving this room, you can head back east to
explore (turn fo 399) or go to the west to the north
turning of the passage (tum to 134).

330
You take out of the hole an opaque green vial with a
wax seal which the rat hadn't managed to bite through
completely. The liquid inside is syrupy, thick and
sweet. This is a Potion of Flying: it may be extremely
useful to you (you will be asked later on whether you
wish to use it), Gain : Luck point. Now, if there is a
knight whose name you know and whose sword you
seek, turn to 117; otherwise, turn ta 43 to explore else-

where,

351
There is neither treasure nor anything else of use to
you among the razed and looted buildings on the east
side of town. You must eat a meal during the time you

332-333

spend here. However, on your way back to the main
road you stumble across a small stone well, which has
no buckets beside it and no mechanism for drawing up
water. Then you remember dimly that there was said
to be a Well of Visions outside Castle Argent; is this
small, inconspicuous well that very one? If you want
to pitch a Gold Piece into it to find out, tum to ago
Alternatively, you can explore the western side of the
ruins if you haven't done so (tum to 369) or make for
the castle itself (turn to 192).

332
You push open the door and find yourself in a bare
antechamber. There is a door to your right, and before
you lies a pair of crystalline doors; they have images
of War Dragons engraved on them and bizarre locks
with keyholes crafted in yellowed bone set into the
crystal. If you are Braxus, turn to 113 now. If you
want to open the east door here, not having done so
before, turn to 314. If you want to try to open the
crystalline doors, turn to 135.

333
The parchment states that the two dead Dwarfs were

warTiors come to seek the Stonehammer, a mighty
magical weapon crafted by the Granitesmiths of Grun-
dia centuries past. The Dwarfs clearly believed that a
monstrous Hellhorn Champion ~ whatever that may
be, you have never heard of such a monster — had
possession of this great weapon and that it is hidden
somewhere in the west wing of the castle above.
Sadly, they perished at the hands of Orcs before they

7 :- =
334-335

could retrieve their sought-after prize. If you are Stub-
ble, gain 1 Lucx point for learning about this weapon!
Now you must search elsewhere, with the hope of
obtaining this wondrous hammer to urge you on in
your arduous quest; turn to 218

334
You are lifted up by the vortex at some speed until

you reach the underside of the Dragon’s platform,
which you hit hard; lose 6 sTAMINA points! Now you
have to claw your way to the edge of the platform
and clamber over its side. Test your Skill. If you are
successful, the Dragon wakes only as you scramble an
to the platform; gain 1 Luck point and tum to 313, If
you fail, the Dragon is sitting awaiting your arrival; as
you try to make your way over the side of the
platform, it smacks you hard with its paws, knocking
you to the ground where you become a spreading
stain on the floor; your adventure ends here

335
Racing back towards the cavern in order to get to the

rope bridge and safety, horrified you see a corridor of
fire spring up as the ghostly wizard lays down a wall
of flames in front of you. Deduct 5 points from your
STAMINA. If you are still alive, you run for your life
and drag yourself across the rope bridge, braving the
fires below, and you manage somehow to scramble
across safely. Gain 1 Luck point for this fortunate
escape, but behind you the rope bridge collapses and
now you cannot return across the fery cavern, Turn
to 357 to find somewhere else to search.

336-338

336
The cat’s bite goes deep, and you are paralysed by its
saliva! Your adventure ends here, defeated by a cat!

337
This door has a small, green, crystalline lock, and the

only way to open it is to use a green crystal key. If
you have such a key, you know the name of the man
you took it from. Convert his name to a number, using
the formula A = 1,B = 2, C = 9% and so on, then
add the numbers corresponding to the letters in the
name and finally double that total. Turn to the para-
graph with that number. If you don’t have this key,
you must search elsewhere; turn to 399.

- -t

~:) -

338

The dim image of the Crown of Kings can be seen
inside the dome. Long removed to Sanctuary, this
magical treasure of Amarillia once cured and healed all
who came to view it, and something of its curative
power still remains, By resting here, you may regain 5
points of lost stamina and have any single form of
plague cured (if you are suffering from any form of
this malady). However, since only one person can
benefit only once from the healing magic of the crown
each week, you won't be able to return here as often
as you please for repeated healing! Turn to 36 to
explore elsewhere in the west wing, or turn to 7 if you
want to return to the Bronze Stride.

339-349

339
In this subterranean room there is a vast jumble of

furnishings and bric-a-brac, and al! the walls are in-
scribed with magical symbols and signs. You see the
single occupant of the room: a cowering, emaciated
Dark Elf with a thin dagger in one hand and a small
trail of fine ash drifting from the other as he prepares
to cast a spell at you. If you are Sallazar, you can make
out what the magical wall-designs mean, so turn to
306. Otherwise, you have several options here. If you
want to attack the Dark Elf, turn to as8. If you would
rather parley, do you think you know what his name
is? If you do, convert that name to a number, using
the code A = 1, B = 2, C = 3 and so on. Add
together the numbers corresponding to the letters in
his name, then turn to the paragraph with that number
(unless the name you guess is the first word in that
paragraph, you are wrong, and you will be forced to
fight; make a note to turn to 258 if this happens). If
you don’t know his name, but you still want to parley
with him, turn to 289. If you decide to make a mun for
it, turn to 198,

340
You find a huge pile of gold coins, all with the Z
symbol on one side and a likeness of Zagor’s face on
the other side. You grab as many as you can — 50
Gold Zagors — and shove them into your backpack
Shrieking howls of a magical gale are beginning to
race around at the top of the Great Tower! Turn to

235.

341-342

341

The guards here are formidable — and horrible -—
enemies. The Hellhorns, which Zagor drew with him
from some plane of nightmare and chaos stand well
over two metres tall and hold great whips in their
monstrous clawed hands. Powerful and muscular, these
creatures are nevertheless tainted with chaos and dis-
ease; rotting flesh hangs from their skeletal faces and
they are well named — their horns are powerful and
they will use them to butt you with, as well as wielding
their whips, Fortunately, one of the two Hellhorns here
was dozing when you entered and is not immediately
ready to fight. For the first three Attack Rounds, you
fight, one against one, with a single Hellhorn; thereafter,
you must fight both. Turn to 174 to fight!

342
Your search is long indeed; you must eat two meals here
However, among the graffiti scrawled on cell-block
walls you pick up some scraps of information. ‘Healing
_.. view crown... west wing’ is painstakingly etched on
one wall, while another shows the symbol of a great axe
with the word ‘Groof’ scrawled below. If you are Anvar,
turn to 322, Otherwise, you can now try exploring the

343

next cell-block (turn to 210) or move on elsewhere in the
jails (turn to 51); if you wish to leave the jails altogether
and return to the main castle, turn to 357.

343

The legendary Hall of Heroes lies behind this door.
All the greatest warriors and knights in Amarillia had
their portraits placed here and, surprisingly, they have
not been defaced. Entering, you gaze sadly at the
paintings, realizing that so many of Amarillia’s finest
warriors must have perished in the terrible war against
the Bane Demon and its armies One painting in
particular catches your eye: it depicts a plate mail-clad
knight with flowing auburn hair and green eyes; this
youth is hewing down a group of Orcs single-handedly
while an airborne sword flies about him striking at
Ores as well! Unfortunately the plaque under this
painting has been torn away — possibly by irate
Ores. Test your Spot Skill; if you are successful, turn
to 38x If you fail, you spot nothing unusual, so
now you must leave and explore elsewhere; you can
go south and then eastwards (turn to 399) or north-
wards to the Passage of Hawks (turn to 111).

341-342

344

The guards here are formidable — and horrible —
enemies. The Hellhorns, which Zagor drew with him
from some plane of nightmare and chaos stand well
over two metres tall and hold great whips in their
monstrous clawed hands. Powerful and muscular, these
creatures are nevertheless tainted with chaos and dis-
ease; rotting flesh hangs from their skeletal faces and
they are well named — their horns are powerful and
they will use them to butt you with, as well as wielding
their whips. Fortunately, one of the two Hellhorns here
was dozing when you entered and is not immediately
ready to fight. For the first three Attack Rounds, you
fight, one against one, with a single Hellhorn; thereafter,
you must fight both, Turn to 174 to fight!

342
Your search is long indeed; you must eat two meals here
However, among the graffiti scrawled on cell-block
walls you pick up some scraps of information. ‘Healing

_. view crown. , . west wing’ is painstakingly etched on
one wall, while another shows the symbol of a great axe
with the word ‘Grool’ scrawled below, If you are Anvar,
turn to 322, Otherwise, you can now try exploring the

343

next cell-block (turn to 240) or move on elsewhere in the
jails (turn to 51); if you wish to leave the jails altogether
and retum to the main castle, turn to 357

3453
The legendary Hall of Heroes lies behind this door.

All the greatest warriors and knights in Amarillia had
their portraits placed here and, surprisingly, they have
not been defaced. Entering, you gaze sadly at the
paintings, realizing that so many of Amarillia’s finest
warriors must have perished in the terrible war against
the Bone Demon and its armies. One painting in
particular catches your eye: it depicts a plate mail-clad
knight with flowing auburn hair and green eyes; this
youth is hewing down a group of Orcs single-handedly
while an airborne sword flies about him striking at
Orcs as well! Unfortunately the plaque under this
painting has been torn away — possibly by irate
Ores, Test your Spot Skill; if you are successful, turn
to 384. If you fail, you spot nothing unusual, so
now you must leave and explore elsewhere; you can
go south and then eastwards (turn to 399) or north-
wards to the Passage of Hawks (turn to 121).

- ,

344-346

344
Test your Luck, If you are Lucky, tum to 107. If you are
Unlucky, turn to 301

345
A huge chamber, created by knocking down walls

between various castle rooms, this once housed the
Dragon hatcheries of the demonic servants of the
castle, but the eggs in their regular rows have long
since shrivelled and dried up here. The atmosphere is
eerie; you are standing in a gigantic Dragon mauso-
leurn. If you want to search it thoroughly, turn to
370. Otherwise you leave and search elsewhere;
turn to 52

346

The amount of noise you make yelling out your
challenge wakes the Dragon. With a mixed expression
of hatred and contempt, it waves a paw to seal the
entrance to its chamber so you cannot escape. It
simply stays where it is and breathes a rapid succession
of gouts of flame over you. You cannot hope to defeat
it from where you stand, and you are burt to a
cinder.

347

The door here is wedged light but you managed to
force it open, and you find yourself in a smithy. There
is a great forge-fre in the south wall, but its flames
have long been dimmed. Any weapons or armour
once here have evidently been looted, but you may
take a strong iron rod you find here. If in future you
are asked to Test your Skill to force open a locked or
tightly shut door, you may subtract 1 from the total
rolled for using this strong bar to help you open the
door Leaving this room and looking east along the
corridor opposite the door, you can see two doors to
your left, The first of these is particularly strong, and
contains a heavy lock. You should now explore an
area you haven't entered before, so will you:

Open the first door along to your

left? Turn to 105
Open the second door along to your

left? Turn to 269
Head back south and search

elsewhere? Turn to 376
348-349

348

To search behind the fireplace, you have to plunge
your hands into the magical fire, and you must also
Test your Skill. You lose 3 STAMINA points for the
damage the fire causes you, and if you fail, you do not
find the secret panel Dorrick told you of. You can try
again, by Testing your Skill, as many times as you
wish, but each time you will suffer damage from the
magical fire. If you finally succeed, turn to 142. If you
want to abandon your attempt to find the secret panel,
turn to 36 to explore.elsewhere

349
Compute Attack Strengths as normal. If you use the

one-shot magical stone here, and you have the higher
Attack Strength, you damage Zagor. If he has the
higher Attack Strength, his spell drains 1 point from
your Current skiLL and 2 points from your Current
STAMINA, and your stone misses him. If you have
already cast a spell against Zagor and have not suffered
any ill-effects from one of Zagor’s spells, turn to 31
Otherwise, turn to 299 to decide a course of action for
the next Attack Round; you cannot use this magical
attack again

350-551

350
There is a very carefully concealed portal which opens
into a small chamber here. You can sense Magical
energies playing around inside this chamber, though
you have no idea what they might do to you, should
you enter, If you decide to enter anyway, turn to 294.
Otherwise, you must open the other door here, either
normally (turn to 304) or by using an Open spell (turn
to 321).

354
The Elf flinches at the mention of Zagor’s name. ‘I
really wouldn't use the Z-word round here. Walls have
ears, you know. More importantly, there are things
that can creep out of walls if they hear that word.
Well, to find you-know-who atop the Great Tower,
you ve got to get past the Dragon Doors, north of the
Throne Room, along the Bronze Stride. And to do
that, you have to have the Dragonbone Keys, There’s
one set in both the east and west wings. Grool has
one set, for sure.’ Return to 22
3548-349

348

To search behind the fireplace, you have to plunge
your hands into the magical fire, and you must also
Test your Skill. You lose 3 sTAMINA points for the
damage the fire causes you, and if you fail, you do not
find the secret panel Dorrick told you of. You can try
again, by Testing your Skill, as many times as you
wish, but each time you will suffer damage from the
magical fire. If you finally succeed, turn to 142. If you
want to abandon your attempt to find the secret panel,
turn to 36 to explore elsewhere

349
Compute Attack Strengths as normal. If you use the

one-shot magical stone here, and you have the higher
Attack Strength, you damage Zagor. If he has the
higher Attack Strength, his spell drains 1 point from
your Current skitt and 2 points from your Current
STAMINA, and your stone misses him. If you have
already cast a spell against Zagor and have not suffered
any ill-effects from one of Zagor's spells, turn to 31
Otherwise, turn to 299 to decide a course of action for
the next Attack Round; you cannot use this magical
attack again.

350-351

350

There is a very carefully concealed portal which opens
into a small chamber here, You can sense Magical
energies playing around inside this chamber, though
you have no idea what they might do to you, should
you enter, If you decide to enter anyway, turn to 294.
Otherwise, you must open the other door here, either
normally (tum to 304) or by using an Open spell (tum
to 321)

351

The EIf flinches at the mention of Zagor’s name. 1
really wouldn't use the Z-word round here, Walls have
ears, you know, More importantly, there are things
that can creep out of walls if they hear that word.
Well, to find you-know-who atop the Great Tower,
you've got to get past the Dragon Doors, north of the
Throne Room, along the Bronze Stride. And to do
that, you have to have the Dragonbone Keys. There’s
one set in both the east and west wings. Grool has
one set, for sure.’ Return to 22.
5527353

552

You march towards the leader's hall, ducking into side-
passages occasionally in order to avoid Orcish patrols.
Eventually you throw open the door to the hall where
the leader and his cronies are washing down a pre-
lunch rat snack with great gulps of black Orcish beer.
The Orc guards stand between you and their leader,
however, and you're going to have to get past them
before you can attack the leader. Fight the two body-
guards together.

SKILL STAMINA
First ORC BODYGUARD 8 7
Second ORC BODYGUARD 7 7

While you are fighting, the Orc leader himself joins in
the fray, but from a distance. He has a magical hammer:
he throws it at your head and it then Alies back to his
hand, to be thrown again! In odd-numbered Attack
Rounds (first, third, fifth, etc.), you must Test his Skill,
which is 9. If he is successful, it strikes you and you
must deduct 2 points from your sTAMINA, If you are
Stubble, you may add 2 to the number rolled (you are
small and harder to hit from a distance). If you roll 11
or 12, the hammer accidentally hits one of the Orc
bodyguards! If you want to flee this combat at any
time, turn to 284. If you defeat the bodyguards, tum
to 226.

353
The Hellhom Champion has 3 Gold Pieces, some

minor looted items of gold and silver pendants and
jewellery worth 10 Gold Pieces in all, and a Tower

354

Chest! There is a bunch of Dragonbone keys here
numbering 161 in total, though there is just one large
master key. There is also a heavy stone hammer beside
the chest which may be of use to you, unless you are
Sallazar If you are Anvar or Braxus, this weapon will
not give you any bonuses to your Attack Strength,
but it does count as a magic weapon if you do not
have one. If you are Stubble, this Stonehammer gives
a bonus of 1 to your Attack Strength in all future
combats, and against Zagor or any Dragon it adds 2
to your Attack Strength, so gain 1 Luck point for
recovering this! Now turn to 36 to explore elsewhere.

354
You avoid the obvious tripwires, but they are merely

decoys for the very fine and almost transparent
bleached Ore-gut tripwires! You must Test your Luck (if
you have a thief hireling with you, you may subtract 2
from the dice roll). If you are Lucky, you get just over
half-way along the trapped passage in safety. If you
fail, a volley of crossbolts is shot at you Since these
are aimed at head height, you must lose 6 sTAMINA
points unless you are Stubble, in which case all but
one shot flies overhead (you lose 2 sTAMINA points),
Turn to 268

355-356

355
You are crawling along towards a small chamber to

the north — when suddenly you feel a burning sensa-
tion on your back and flames are licking at your
clothes! Deduct 1 point from your sTAMINA. Above
you, a pair of vicious, Imp-like creatures have opened
little murder holes in the ceiling and are pouring
burning oil over you! If you want to crawl back to
where you entered, you can do so: you must lose 6
STAMINA points from the oil that is still being poured
on to you and, if you are still alive, you can try
making for the east door provided you haven't opened
it before (turn to 13); or you can return to the main
castle (turn to 3), If you prefer to fight, turn to 242.

356
Your fiery attack spell will cause extra damage to the
Mummy (deduct 8 points from its sTAMINA) and it
will set the monster alight, so that is loses 2 STAMINA
points in each Attack Round until it expires, burnt to
ashes! Turn to 288 to fight the monster.

357-358

357
At the end of the long stretch of passage leading

westwards, your route turns to the north. There is a
door in the west wall at the junction of these passages,
and you can feel a distinct sensation of warmth coming
from behind it, Along the northern passageway there
are two doors, to your left, some distance along and,
at the far end of the passage, facing you, a stout,
locked door with a grille and cover set into it at eye
level. This last door looks very much like the entrance
to a jail block, You are sure that this northern passage-
way will lead you closer to the goal of your quest, so
you follow it. Choose a door to open which you
haven't opened before; will this be:

Turn to 77
Turn to 225
Turn to 28
Turn to 51

The door at the passage junction?
The first door on your Ieft?

The second door on your left?
The door with the grille?

358
If you are wearing metal (chain mail or plate mail)
armour, turn to 104. If you are not, turn to 145

359-360

359
You push open the double doors and find yourself at

the entrance to a very dimly lit but huge chamber.
You raise your lantern to take a closer look: clearly
this is a Feast Hall, and around the huge dining table
are skeletons seated in the rags and remains of what
was once finery. While you are taking all this in, a
squeaking and turbulent mass of huge black rats rushes
down upon youl! If you decide to fight, turn to 245. If
you want to flee and slam the doors shut behind you,
you must Test your Skill. If you are successful, you
escape and return to the doorway at the end of the
entrance hall; turn to 376. If you fail, you must fight;
turn to 215,

360

The spindle absorbs some of your strength into itself.
It reduces your Current and Initial Magic Points score
by 1 point, to a minimum of 1; if you are Anvar, it
will reduce both your Current and Initial Luck score
by 1 point instead. Kicking over the malign thing, you
leave and head for the wrought-iron door to the north
of the passageway outside, Tum to 197.

361-363

361
Behind the doors to the east wing is a very lengthy,
wide passage which leads eastwards. You march fifty
metres or so along it until you arrive at the middle
and take your bearings there. Turn to 52,

362

You force open a door and find two armoured Orcs
with swords readied. One of them is almost invisible,
appearing as a faint shimmer in the air, That Orc is the
one facing you; the other is standing over the cowering
body of a terrified, middle-aged man, dressed in white
robes and lying on the floor. You will have to fight
here. If you want to attack the Orc facing you, turn to
35. IF you want to attack the second Orc, you can do
so — but the first Orc will get in a free blow against
you as you force your way past him, so you must
deduct 2 points from your sTAMINA. If you decide to
attack the second Orc anyway, tum to 177

363
Predictably, the king’s art gallery has been desecrated
by the Orcs of the castle: broken sculptures and
shattered crystal lie everywhere, and the Orcs have
daubed moustaches and beards on the paintings of

364

the queens and princesses. Paintings of Elven Masters
of the King’s Hunt have been contemptuously sliced
up with swords, and the hall has been thoroughly
vandalized. However, a large portrait of an old,
grey-haired wizard is still intact in its frame at one
end of the gallery; if you wish to examine it closely,
tum to 451. Otherwise, you leave by the west door
and go north to the crossroads; turn to 92.

364
You fly up to the Dragon’s platform and surprise the
Dragon with a free attack (by weapon or spell). Make
a note of the amount of damage this does to the
Dragon's sTAMINA, then turn to 313 to fight, subtract-
ing the appropriate amount from the Dragon’s
STAMINA

365-367

305

You stand, open mouthed, gaping at the monstrosity
that rears up before you. You're not sure what it is —
or what it was, more likely. Perhaps, judging by its
size, it was an Ogre once, But its feet and hands have
been greatly enlarged, and its fingers and toes have
long, raking, hardened nails the size of daggers. Its
belly is hugely distended, and it appears to be blind,
or maybe its eyes are just sunk back into the flesh of
its puffy, reddened face, above a band of livid purple
stitching round its throat. Various tentacles link its
body to pulsating bellows, flasks and jars; and the rise
and fall of a great rubbery valve, dripping with thick
slime, is what is making the ghastly noise in here. You
think you can see a wooden chest half hidden in the
pile of debris round the room, though you cannot be
certain. If you want to flee this lumbering horror as it
squelches towards you, turn to 302. If you decide to
fight it, whatever it is, turn to 167,

366
“Ere, Gutrot, come and take a look at this idiot we
caught’ sniggers a hateful Orc, standing looking down
into the pit. The Ores summon their friends, and they
use you first for crossbow practice then for supper.

367
The office of the one-time castellan of Castle Argent
has been looted, of course, but there are still some
aged, brittle papers and ledgers scattered among the
shambles. You find a small scrap of paper headed
‘Inventory of Magical Items held by the’ then the
368-369

paper is torn. There is just one item listed, an ‘Orc-
slaying dancing sword’, with a brief note that the
sword is temperamental and makes awkward demands.
‘Currently owned by Sir Be’ is the final note. Clearly,
such a sword would be very valuable to you — if only
you knew the knight's full name and where the sword
might be found! Search elsewhere by turning to 399.

368

Just beyond the point at which the passage turns
north there is a door in the west wall. Some metres
further along, at the end of the passageway, is a
forbidding black door with wrought-iron decoration
all over it; a racket of noise is coming from behind that
door: creatures are shouting wildly and discordant
music brays forth, If you want to open the door to
your left, tum to 341. If you want to move on
northwards, turn to 11.

369
You spend some hours sifting through the least-
destroyed homes, so you must eat a meal. You find a

369

10-metre length of rope and an empty glass bottle. You
also find some gold; roll one dice to discover the
number of Gold Pieces you find hidden in a leather
purse that has been stuffed into a hole in a wall.
However, you also run into a prowling group of Orcs
as you make your way back to the main road. Three
of them jump out from behind a crumbling stone wall
and, while their armour is ragged, their axes look
sharp enough. To your dismay, you observe that these
are Great Orcs — and, worse still, one of them is a
mutant with exceptionally powerful limbs and shoul-
ders. You must fight them all together as they encircle
you!

SKILL STAMINA
First GREAT ORC 9 6
Second GREAT ORC 7 6
MUTANT ORC 8 2

If you win, the Orcs have no treasure and you cannot
eat the rats they have in their food pouches! If you
want to search the ruins on the other side of town, not
having already done so, turn to 331, If you want to
make straight for Castle Argent, tum to 192.

370"372

370
You must eat a meal during your search here, but you
notice that one egg is still seeping thick liquid from a
crack in its leathery shell. If you have an empty glass
bottle, you may collect some of this liquid. If you are
Sallazar, turn to 119. Otherwise, turn to 183.

371

You must bribe the ghost with a Magic Ring, a
Golden Talisman, a Silver Dagger, or a Potion to let
you leave in peace. If you are prepared to do this,
remove the item from your Adventure Sheet; you can
now explore the cavern where you saw the gleam of
gold, if you haven't been there before (turn to 10), or
you can head back to the main cavern you entered by
(turn to 186). If you can’t, or won't, give up such an
item, you must fight (turn to 114) or flee (turn to 335).

372
Eerily, the Grand Templar’s chambers are still as they
were in the great days of Castle Argent, though all is
now covered in dust. A magical fire burns hotly in a
erate but gives forth no smoke. Trophies of the hunt

373-374

crowd the walls, and ceremonial robes and capes hang
on pegs beside them. You really don’t want to take
anything from this place: it may be tainted with the
chaotic magic which destroyed the Templar’s mind.
So, you can now explore somewhere else in the west
wing (turn to 36) or make for the Bronze Stride (turn
to 7).

373
Test your Spot Skill. If you are unsuccessful, tum to

212. If you fail, you find nothing, so leave and turn to
3 to search elsewhere

374
With extraordinary agility, the little brute leaps on to
your back, rummages in your backpack with its hard
little claws, sniffs out the iron spikes, grabs two of
them in its paws and gobbles them up! When it jumps
down, you can see that the iron plates on its back and
legs are visibly sturdier, and the animal gives a soft
growl of pleasure. The little beast will follow you and
help you in future, If you meet creatures that are made
of metal or which wear metal armour (Great Ores
wear metal armour, as do their leaders and chieftains;
ordinary Orcs, Mutant Orcs and Zombies do not),
then this little beast wil! help you to fight them,
375-376

destroying their armour, When fighting these creatures,
you can subtract 1 from their Attack Strength, The
Ironhog helps in all such combats from now on; you
cannot choose which combats it will or will not help
you with (it automatically attacks any armour-wearing
or metal creature) Roll one dice and add i to the
number rolled; this is the maximum number of combats
in which the Ironhog will take part before it runs off
(it runs away immediately if it sees a Dragon!). Now,
with this strange creature in tow, will you open the
door opposite with the ceramic plaque, if you haven't
done so before (tum to 112), or make for the end of
the passage (turn to 43)?

375
The hag has some items of treasure concealed in a

false compartment in the chair she was sitting on —
you find a vial of Plague Antidote, a scroll of a Magic
Screen spell and a Magic Ring. You are intrigued by
her spinning wheel; it is clearly magical, and the
thought crosses your mind whether or not you could
somehow use it for your own benefit. If you want to
take a chance by spinning it yourself, turn to 247. If
you don’t want to take the chance, you leave here and
head for the wrought-iron door at the end of the north
passage outside; tum to 197

376
You stand with your back to the doors at the end of
the entrance hall, looking west. Immediately in front
of you is another pair of double doors, while to the
north a passageway stretches out for many metres;

377

there are two doorways further along on the west side
of this north-bound passage and a door at the end of
it, and it turns back eastwards far in the distance. To
your left, the passage soon turns west. Explore an area
you have not entered before. Will you:

Head for the west passage? Turn to 3
Open the double doors in front of

you? Turn to 359
Open the first door along the north

passage? Tum to 38

Open the second door along the

north passage? Turn to 347
Go all the way to the end of the
north passage? Tum to 155

377
Grool catches you in the back with a well-aimed rock

as you run; deduct 3 points from your sTAMINA, If
you are still alive, you slam the door shut and flee
straight back to the Bronze Stride, so tum to 7. Make
a note that you can return to fight Grool later; if you
do so and you manage to wound him, his sTAMINA
score will have returned to its full value (22) because
of magical healing the monster can use!

378-379

378

You peer round the door you have just pushed open —
and you can hardly believe your eyes! This was once
the king's indoor garden, with rare and exotic plants
from all over Amarillia cultivated by magical means.
Many are surviving, so the magic must still be here
and, while Ores have chopped down trees and shrubs
so that the going is difficult underfoot, plant life stil!
grows abundantly here. Garden chairs and tables are
dotted around, together with riots of flowers and
lemon-scented grass borders. In the centre of the room
is a long, hedged path, with willow-like trees drooping
their silvery leaves along it. In the distance, to the
south, you can see a small fountain which still has a
trickle of water dripping from its intricately carved
head. You are making for the fountain when there is a
rustle of sound from the branches of the trees and you
are surprised as a flock of bats flies to attack you (lose
2 STAMINA points). These are no ordinary bats, how-
ever: their blood-red glowing eyes, razor-sharp canine
teeth and metre-wide wingspans reveal them to be
Horned Vampire Bats!

HORNED VAMPIRE BATS) sxitt8 STAMINA®

If you win, and the bats have inflicted any damage to
you at all, turn to 18. Otherwise, you can set off
towards the fountain (turn to 47) or back away from
this room, fearing further hidden attackers (tum to 3).

379
You must Test your Skill as the Mummy approaches,

adding 2 to the total rolled. If you are successful, the

380-381

lantern strikes the Mummy and sets it alight! The
monster loses 2 STAMINA points, and it will continue
to lose 2 STAMINA points automatically in every sub-
sequent Attack Round. If you fail, your lantern misses
the Mummy and smashes on the floor behind it. You
no longer have a lantern! Turn to 288 to fight the
monster.

380

You must eat a meal while exploring a dozen or so of
the cells, but all you find are some manacled skeletons,
scrawled graffiti on cell-block walls, and a great deal of
mould growing on floors and walls. Now you can try
exploring the next cell block (turn to 210) or go elsewhere
in the jails (turn to 51); if you wish to leave the jails
altogether and return to the main castle, turn to 357

381
There is a well-concealed sliding panel behind one of
the paintings on the west wall. If you want to open it,
turn to 236. If you do not wish to do this, you must
leave and explore elsewhere; you can head south and
then eastwards (turn to 399) or northwards to the
Passage of Hawks (tum to 111).

382

382

You pay the merchant and he hands the casket to the
old man. Dumping it carelessly in a bronze dish, the
sage turns his attention to you. ‘Hmmm. Heading for
Castle Argent, eh?’ You look startled at his prescience,
knowing where you are headed; perhaps he has the
Sight indeed! ‘No, actually the king told me. But, in
fact, | did have one of my visions about the place only
the other day, Now, did I write it down?’ He scrambles
up a tickety stepladder with an agility unusual in one
so old, and drags a thick, leather-bound tome covered
in dust from one of the topmost shelves, He fumbles
with the pages then, with a shriek of triumph, he
recites a verse of riddles to you:

The Knight can be destroyed by the lions within the
green;

The Hellhom Champion falls to the chevrons in the
white;

The War Dragon falls to the yellow-cloistered stars,

The Ogre Mutant falls to the goblets in the blue.

The Onyx Staff empowers you to use these symbols
frue,

‘Well, that’s it,’ he says. ‘I’ve no idea what it means, of
course, But it is important.’ Rather disappointedly, you
leave. Will you now:

Buy some equipment? Turn to 56

Try to acquire some extra money. if
you haven’t already tried?

Wait for the ship to take you to

Tower Island?

Turn to 206

Tum to 220
383-385 .

385

Unfortunately, using a Potion of Flying is exactly
what Zagor expected you to do, You fly swiftly ap —
and bounce off a rigid wall of magical force that is
baring your way! You fall several metres to the
ground; deduct 3 points from your sTAMINA, and you
now find yourself lying on the stone steps. Turn to
207,

384

There is an irritable shout from behind the door: ‘Yes,
yes, come in!’ so you open the door. You're astonished
to find a scowling man wearing a blue tunic and a brown
skull-cap. A strap from which an eyeglass droops circles
his forehead, ready to be pulled down quickly to inspect
new treasures. This surely marks him out as coming
from the Plains of Cabaal, legendary for its haggling
merchants and shady denizens. The man stands. silent
before a veritable treasure-trove inside the room — you
can see armour, food, weapons and more! If you
decide to attack him and afterwards take what you
can, turn to 267. If you want to ask what he has for
sale, turn to 168.

385
Looking north along this passage, you can see two
doors opposite each other, half-way along the corridor,
and one facing you at the far end. A swift check
shows that the western door here opens into some
bedchambers of the ladies of the court; these rooms
have been utterly looted and vandalized. The door
opposite them has an onyx, patterned inlay bearing

386-387

some odd magical runes. The door at the end of the
passage has a great shield inlay on it: the design of
the old king, Kraal, himself! If you are Sallazar, tum
to 37. If you want to open the onyx door, turn to
78. If you want to open the door bearing the shield,

turn to 259.

386
The runes are a magical warning to keep out, and you
judge that there is a Dark Elf element in their design.
You are also slightly puzzled because they don’t look
like standard wizard’s runes; this makes you uncertain
about the kind of spell-using creature that might have
put them here. Test your Spot Skill. If you are successful,
turn to 23. If you fail, you can cast an Open spell on
the door (turn to 110), open it normally (turn to 339)
or think better of it and search elsewhere (turn to 376).

387
Greed has been your downfall; ensnared by writhing
tentacles, you cannot escape before another massive
gout of acidic filth pours over you from the remains of
the Mutant and the suckers on the tips of the tentacles.
Your adventure ends here.

388-389

388

From the westernmost end of the passage, Orcs come
running to the attack, having heard your loud attempts
to force this door. They let fly with a pair of crude
crossbows; Test your Skill. If you are successful, you
dodge the missiles; if you fail, you must deduct 2
points from your stTAMINA because you are hit once
If you roll 3 or more above your Current sKILL score,
both shots hit you and you must lose 4 STAMINA
points! Dropping their bows, the Orcs draw short-
swords and close to hand-to-hand fighting. Backed up
against the wall, you can fight them separately

SKILL STAMINA
First GREAT ORC y 4 6
Second GREAT ORC 7 6

If you win, the Ores have no treasure, so you go back
to smashing down the door. Turn to 203.

389
Looking northwards, it is obvious that the passageway
here is littered with traps. There are visible tripwires
on the floor and wall-mounted crossbows are perched,
ready to deliver a nasty volley of shots at you.
Clearly, getting past this stretch of corridor to the
doors and passages in the distance wil! not be simple.
[f you do not want to enter this trapped area just yet,
but prefer to explore an area you haven't visited yet,
go west to the mid-way point of the Passage of
Hawks; turn to 5. Because the trapped area of corridor
is some 10 metres in length, a Jump spell will take
you only part of the way along; if you can, and wish,

399

to use this spell, tur to 268. If your only option is
to stride forward and hope for the best, turn to

354.

390

This door is locked, but a swift search locates the keys
on Thulu’s body and you throw open the cell which
lies behind the door. On a bed of filthy straw, a red-
eyed old man clad in once-white robes looks up at
you with an expression that is at first hopeless but
then turns to one of delight and joy as he sees that
you are not one of Thulu’s creatures. ‘My friend, how
can ] ever repay you for freeing me?’ he says. ‘I am a
healer, and surely you must have suffered much to
teach this far into this terrible den of evil.’ If you have
the Plague, the healer will cure you of any and all
forms you may have. He can also lay his healing
hands upon you and restore up to 8 points of
STAMINA. He then rushes up to Thulu’s throne and
opens a secret compartment in its base, reaching for a
ring, which he slips on to his finger. ‘My friend, ] am
no fighter or wizard. I can help you no longer with
your quest; | have been locked up for so long that I
know nothing of the terrible changes here, though |
have sensed them. I must be gone, back to my liege
lord, the king.’ If you think you know the name of this
healer, convert his name to a number using the code A
= 1,B = a, C = 3 and so on; add the numbers
corresponding to the letters of his name and turn to
the paragraph with that number. If his name is not the
first word you see there, or if you do not know his
name, tum to 224.
391-392

391
Such ineffable evil now sits on the great throne, atop
wide, marbled steps, where once the kings of Amarillia
held court to the wise and great. Rotting rags of
purple, black and white robes hang from his body, but
the large Z emblazoned across his chest is clear enough.
He looks like both the most evil man you have ever
seen and a Demon, at one and the same time! Stitches
down both sides of his face stand out proud from his
gloating, demonic skin as if they covered veins ready
to burst. His body is strong, his skin scaly as that of a
Demon, but bones show beneath the skin and on his
left a skeletal arm, lacking a hand, is sunk into the metal
and wood of the throne, and a pulsing purple radiance
glows round it, Zagor rises to his feet, and you see
that the monster is huge; he must stand four metres
tall! He grips a powerful, mme-etched staff and casts
his arms out wide, grinning a ghastly, crooked leer of
triumph — but as he does this, lacquered black and red
cards drop from the folds of his robes! For a split
second, the Zagor-Demon’s face seems to register
concern, The cards are falling down all round him and,
if you want to grab one as it falls and look at its face,
you may do so; turn to 187, If you prefer not to, but
would rather set about the business of attacking Zagor
immediately, turn to 299

392
‘Well, if you leave here and turn north, going eastwards
takes you to the Orc barracks, so watch out, Mind
you, if you go westwards, you'll get to the Hellhom
guards and the Throne Room itself. More monsters in
393-394

there than you can shake a stick at. Get through there
and you're into the Bronze Stride; from there, there are
doors to the east and west wings and the doors to the
Great Tower. Grool rules the east wing from the ald
war tower; the west wing is very dangerous, with the
Hellhom Champion and all those severed heads —
gives me the creeps. Beware the Spectre there!” Return
fo 22,

beat

393
A great Barbarian Axe lies propped up against the

chest! If you are Braxus, you can use this two-handed
weapon; you will not gain any bonuses to Attack
Strength for it, but it does count as a magic weapon
(some creatures can be struck only by such weapons,
so this may prove useful). If you are Anvar, however,
this weapon adds 1 to your Attack Strength for al]
combats; against Zagor and any Dragon it adds 2 to
your Attack Strength, so gain 1 Lucx point for this
find! You clamber down the stone steps and back to
the main passageway beyond the tower; turn to 52.

You are surprised by a weighted net that sails down
from the beams above. Unless you are Anvar, you
must Test your Skill to avoid being ensnared by the
thin metal mesh as a pair of squealing, dirty little

395

Goblins slither down ropes from the beams where
they have been hiding. If you fail, you must subtract 2
from your Attack Strength as you fight the Goblins
together.

SKILL STAMINA
First GOBLIN 6 6
Second GOBLIN 6 6

If you win, you search through the pile of weapons;
you do not care for the prospect of clambering up the
ropes to see what miserable scrap of treasure the
Goblins may have hoarded up above! Test your Luck. If
you are Lucky, you find # longbow intact and a quiver
of arrows here; if you-are Unlucky, you find nothing
usable. Now will you leave this room and open the
door opposite (turn to 20) of head for the double
doors at the far end of the entrance hall (turn to 376)?

395
You find a concealed magical portal in one of the

smallest chambers of the knights’ quarters. If you want
to cast a Teleport spell here, it will convey you past
some of the greatest dangers of this castle level — and
past some treasures, too. If you want to use this
portal, you must cast a Teleport spell and walk into it;
turn fo 41. If you don’t wish to use this portal now,
you may be able to do so later. Make a note of this
paragraph number; you can return here to teleport
from any chamber on this level of the castle (not
during combat, of course, and not once you have
crossed any staircase on this castle level). Now, if
there is a specific knight whose name you know and
396-397

whose room you want to find, tum to 117. Making a
search of even a few rooms will be time-consuming; if
you want to do this, turn to 159. Otherwise you leave
the rooms of the Argent Knights; you can open the
doors to the Orc barracks if you haven‘t done so
before (turn to 204) or make your way west to the
point where the passageway bends north (turn to
568).

396
The only treasure here is the Dark Knight’s two-handed
sword which only Anvar can use. If you are Anvar,
this sword counts as a magic weapon (some creatures
may be struck only by magic weapons, so it may
prove useful). Now you leave and head north for the
crystalline doors; turn to 135.

597
The triangle has disappeared and the web seems to be

spreading across the door, as if in a defensive reflex.
You guess that the web is the magical locking element
here. Either you must use an Open spell to bypass it
(turn to 229 if you can, and wish, to do this); otherwise
you cannot open the door. If you can’t open this door
because you don’t have enough Magic Points to cast
the Open spell required, or if you don’t have a scroll
of this spell and need one, you should make a note of
this paragraph number so that you can return here
later (you will not be able to return here after you
have crossed any stairway). For now, however, you
leave, frustrated at your inability to get into the
wizard’s inner sanctum; tum to 3.

398-399

398

There is a disgusting stench coming from behind this
slightly open door and it is pitch black inside. If you
do not have a source of light, you don’t want to risk
entering here, so you decide to explore the next door
to the north; tum to 344. If you have some light, you
can either explore the room on the other side of this
door by tuming to 301, or you can give the stinking
room a miss and continue north to the next door by
tuming to 34.4.

399
You are standing at a junction of passages: one runs

east and west (to your right and left respectively);
another, leading northwards, is straight in front of
you. You are looking towards the north with the door
to the entrance chamber at your back. The corridor in
front of you runs for some fifteen metres, then it
meets a very extensive east-west passageway, the
walls of which bear plaques showing the etched figures
of hunting birds: this is the Passage of Hawks. To
your right, there are two doors on the south side of
the passage, which then turns to the north; at this
point there is a door facing westwards, To your left,
there is a single door, again on the south side of the
corridor, which then turns northwards. Al] the passages
here are lit by dim torches; they give out a faint
magical light which grows weaker with the passing
years but which is sufficient for you to see by. You
should explore an area you haven’t entered before.
Will you:

400

Open the first door to your right? Turn to 367
Open the second door to your right? Turn to 337
Open the door at the far right? Turn to 73
Open the door to your left? Turn to 238
Head north to the Passage of Hawks? Tum to5
Head west along the passage to

where it turns north? Turn to 134
Head east along the passage to where
it turns north? Tum to 139

. 400
You drop the body of the Zagor-Demon into the
chasm of the Heartfires, and a terrible scream rises
from the bottomless depths below. The fires burn with
an unbearable heat and you stagger backwards, going
eastwards along the passageway beyond the chasm,
and reel out through the doors of Castle Argent. You
really don’t remember too much after that.

When you regain awareness, you feel a cool sea-breeze
playing across your face. You cough and splutter as a
draught of best Crab Island rum is poured down your
throat, The smiling face of a Centaur, with just a hint
of tears shining in his eyes, swims into focus above
you. ‘We had to deal with a few Orcs who seemed
interested in running you through with their swords,’
he says softly, ‘but, well, that was the least we could
do. Welcome back!’ The sailors on the deck of the
Glory of Amarillia give you a rousing cheer, and surely
greater glory awaits you when you return to Sanctu-
ary, Amarillia is still a troubled land with many evils —
but now it has the chance of survival, thanks to you!

“WHO DARES
CHALLENGE ME?”

The voice of the evil undead sorcerer Zagor challenges you, brave Hero,
to venture through the terror-filled dungeons of Firetop Mountain in
this interactive 3-1) Fighting Fantasy Game with a computer voice.

Based on the characters From this book, lan Livingstone’s
Legend OF Zagor same Features a 40k memary chip which
controls the action. Zagor’s vaice calls aut commands, controlling
combat between players and his hideous monsters using digital
voice synthesis with over 200 different semtences and
gruesomely realistle sound effects and random events.

Legend OF Zagor is For | to 4 players and includes a
3-0 3 level dungeon, 22 unique miniatures and
over a hundred cards, tlles and playing pieces.

Legend OF Zagor is available now in the UK. and Eire only from all
good games stockists. Should you have have difficulty locating
cena ae, the game. please call
j= Fe Ors pest, a Parker Consumer
a

pike’ Services Department

ne mon

