" FIGHTING FANTASY BOOKS

Over 13 million copies sold worldwide!

Adventurer Needed — Urgently!

An experienced adventurer te desperately needed
mm the distant city of: Arion fora mission af
deadly importance — an adventurer like YOU
Teléssa, the beautiful Princess Royal, is missing,
believed kidnapped, She must be rescued) and
she must be rescoed tose.

Untortanately King lontiene has already grven |
the quest to your deadly rival Fang-sen of Titar!)
Can you prove that pel) are the ‘brie co find the:
princess; wherever she may be held: belore she

car be harmed? Hurry, for time is running out!

PICS TING,
POPULAK

FANTASY — THE WORLD'S. MOST.

ADVENTURE GCAMEBOOK SERIES

Gaver diustretion hy. Tory Onicos

rp \ ISBN 0-14-0364696-X
¢

’ I

a

—
LATI>

e
ee ore
~~
.
’

:*>

oes es
——————<————

sro JAC KSON AND

Bee 8
—

7 Pity

Puffin Books

DEATHMOOR

The request, brought by carrier-pigeon to your retreat on Takio
in the Isles of the Dawn, is perfectly clear. An experienced
adventurer is desperately needed in the distant city of Arion for a
mission of deadly importance — an adventurer like YOU. When
you artive at the court of King Jonthane after a long sea voyage,
the urgency of the mission becomes clear. Telessa, the beautiful
young Princess Royal, is missing, believed kidnapped, She must
be rescued, and must be rescued fast.

Unfortunately, in his haste King Jonthane has already given the
quest to another, your deadly nval, Fang-zen of Jitar! He cannot
be trated — you know that the only person suitable for this
herole task ls YOU, Can you prove that you are the one to
rescue the princess — and, more importantly, find her, wherever
she-may be heki before she can be harmed? Murry. for time is

running out!

Two dice, a pencil and an eraser are all you need to embark
on this thrilling adventure, which comes complete with its own
elaborate combat system and a score sheet to record your
progress. Many dangers lie ahead and your success is anything
but certain. It’s up to YOU to decide which route to follow,
which dangers to risk and which foes to fight. Can you venture
into tre heart of Deathmoor and return with the princess safe and
sound?
Fighting Fantasy Gamebooks

a THE WARLOCK OF FIRETOP
MOUNTAIN
2 THE CITADEL OF CHAOS
3 THE FOREST OF DOOM
4 STARSHIP TRAVELLER
5 CITY OF THIEVES
& DEATHTRAP DUNGEON
7 ISLAND OF THE LIZARD KING
8 SCORPION SWAMP
9 CAVERNS OF TIEIE SNOW
WITCH
zo HOUSE OF HELL
11. TALISMAN OF DEATH
12. SPACE ASSASSIN
13 FREEWAY FIGHTER *
i4 TEMPLE OF TERROR
15 THE RINGS OF KETHER
16 SEAS OF BLOOD
17 APPOINTMENT WITH FEAR
18 REBEL PLANET
ig DEMONS OF THE DEEP
20 SWORD OF THE SAMURAI
az TRIAL OF CHAMPIONS
22 ROBOT COMMANDO
23 MASKS OF MAYHEM
24 CREATURE OF HAVOC
25 BENEATH NIGHTMARE
CASTLE
26 CRYPT OF THE SORCERER
a7 STAR STRIDER

Steve Jackson’s SORCERY!
1, THE SHAMUTANTI HILLS
2 KHARE — CITYPORT OF TRAPS

28 PHANTOMS OF FEAR

29 MIDNIGHT ROGUE

30 CHASMS OF MALICE

31 BATTLEBLADE WARRIOR

32, SLAVES OF THE ABYSS

33 SKY LORD

34 STEALER OF SOULS

35 DAGGERS OF DARKNESS

36 ARMIES OF DEATH

37 PORTAL OF EVIL

38 VAULT OF THE VAMPIRES

39 FANGS OF FURY

40 DEAD OF NIGHT

41 MASTER OF CHAOS

42 BLACK VEIN PROPHECY

43 THE KEEP OF THE LICH-LORD

44 LEGEND OF THE SHADOW
WARRIORS

45. SPECTRAL STALKERS

46 TOWER OF DESTRUCTION

47 THE CRIMSON TIDE

48 MOONRUNNER

49 SIEGE OF SARDATH

50 RETURN TO FIRETOP
MOUNTAIN

51 PLAGUE OF THE UNDEAD

52 NIGHT DRAGON

53 SPELLBREAKER

54 LEGEND OF ZAGOR

3 THE SEVEN SERPENTS
4. THE CROWN OF KINGS

FIGHTING FANTASY — The Introductory Role-Playing Game
THE RIDDLING REAVER — Four Thrilling Adventures

The Fighting Fantasy Novels

THE TROLLTCOTH WARS — Chaos Invades Allansia

DEMONSTEALER — Chadda Darkane Returns
SHADOWMASTER — Chadda Darlunane and Death

The Advanced Fighting Fantasy System

QUT OF THE PIT — Fighting Fantasy Monsters

TITAN — The Fighting Fantasy World

DUNGEONEER — An Introduction to the World of Role-playing Games
BLACKSAND! — More Advanced Fighting Fantasy

Steve Jackson and Ian Livingstone

present

EATHMOUR

by Robin Waterfield

Illustrated by Russ Nicholson

PUFFIN BOOKS

PUFFIN BOOKS

Published by the Penguin Group
Penguin Books Ltd 27 Wrights Lane, London w8 s7z England
Penguin Bauks USA Ine, 375 Hudson Street New York New York 10014, USA
Penguin Books Austrafia Lid, Ringwood Victoria, Australia
Penguin Books Canada Lid, 10 Alcorn Avenue. Tornnio, Ontano, Canada mqy 382
Penguin Books (N24) Ltd, 182-190 Wairau Road, Auckland 10, New Zealand

Penguln Books Ltd, Registered Offices: Harmondaworth, Middlesex, Engtand

First published 1994
T3579 10 6642

Concept copyright © Sleve Jackson and lan Livingstane, 1994
Texl copyright © Robin Waterfield, 2994
Illustrations copyright @ Russ Nicholson, 1994
All nights reserved

The moral right of the author has been asserted

Typeset by Datix Intemational Ltd, Bungay, Suffolk
Filmset in Monophoto Palatino
Prmted in England by Clays Lid, St Ives plc

Except in the United States of Amenca, this book is sold subject
to the condition that it shall not, by way of trade or otherwise, be lent,
re-sold hired out, or otherwige circulated without the publisher's
por consent in any form of binding or cover other than thal in
which it ss published and without a similar condition including this
condition belng imposed on the subsequent purchaser

CONTENTS

INTRODUCTION
7

ADVENTURE SHEET
16

BACKGROUND
18

DEATHMOOR
23

For Kathy, for fun

INTRODUCTION

You are an adventurer: an experienced, battle-hardened
warrior. A native of the seaport Chalannabrad, in the
Old World, you are as familiar with the ways of the
sea as with those of the land. In fact, you were resting
on Takio, the northemmost of the {sles of Dawn,
diving for scarlet pearls among the reefs and shoals
(and sharks) when word reached you of a gathering of
adventurers like yourself in the city of Arion in distant
Khul.

Some great quest is clearly under way. But before you
can travel to Arion and offer your services, you must
find out whether your holiday has fully restored your
powers. You will use dice to find out your initial
SKILL, STAMINA and LUCK scores. On pp. 16-17 there
is an Adventure Sheet which you may use to record
details of your adventure: enter your SKILL, STAMINA
and LucK scores there. You are advised either to use a
pencil for writing on the Adventure Sheet, or to make
photocopies of the page to use in future adventures.

Skill, Stamina and Luck

Roll one dice. Add 6 to this number and enter this
total in the sKILL box on the Adventure Sheet.

Roll two dice. Add 12 to the number rolled, then enter
this total in the STAMINA box.

There is also a Luck box. Roll one dice, add 6 to this
number and enter the total in the Luck box.

For reasons that will be explained below, skit,
STAMINA and LUCK scores change constantly during
any adventure. You must keep an accurate record of
these scores, and for this reason you are advised
either to write small in the boxes or to keep an
eraser handy. But never rub out your Initial scores.
Although you may be awarded additional skit,
STAMINA and LUCK points, these totals may never
exceed your Inifial scores, unless you are specifically
told otherwise.

Your SKILL score is a measure of your expertise with
weapons and in other situations requiring skills: the
higher the better. Your stAMINA score reflects your
physical condition — the higher your sTAMINA score,
the longer you will be able to survive in your adven-
ture. Your Luck score indicates how naturally lucky a
person you are. May your gods smile on you and
grant you a generous LUCK score!

Battles

You will often come across entries where you are told
to fight a creature of some sort. An option to flee may
be given, but if not — or if you choose to attack the
creature anyway — you must resolve the battle as
follows.

First record the creature’s SkILL and STAMINA scores in
the first empty Encounter Box on your Adventure
Sheet. The scores for each creature are given in the
book every time you have an encounter.

The sequence of combat is then:

1. Roll two dice once for your opponent. Add its
SKILL score. This total is the creature’s Attack
Strength.

2. Roll two dice once for yourself. Add the number
rolled to your current skiLL score. This total is
your Attack Strength.

3. If your Attack Strength is higher than that of your
opponent you have wounded it; proceed to step 4.
If your opponent's Attack Strength is higher thari
yours, it has wounded you; proceed to step 5. If
both Attack Strengths are the same, you have
avoided each other’s blows — start the next Attack
Round from step 1, above.

4. You have wounded the creature, so subtract 2
points from its STAMINA score. You may use your
Luck here to do additional damage (see below).

5. The creature has wounded you, so subtract 2 points
from your Own STAMINA score. You may use LUCK
here to lessen the damage you have taken (see
below)

6. Make the appropriate adjustments to either your
opponent's or your own STAMINA score (and your
LucK score if you used Luck).

7. Begin the next Attack Round by repeating steps 1—
6, This sequence continues until the sTAMINA score
of either yourself or the creature you are fighting
has been reduced to zero, which is death.

Fighting More Than One Creature

If you come across more than one creature in a
particular encounter, the instructions on that page will
tell you how to handle the battle. Sometimes you will
treat the group as a single opponent; sometimes you
will fight each one in turn.

10

Luck

At various times during your adventure, either in
battles or when you are faced with situations in which
you could be either lucky or unlucky (details of these
are given in the relevant paragraphs), you may call on
your LUCK to make the outcome more favourable. But
beware! Using tuckx is a risky business and, if you are
unlucky, the results could be disastrous.

The procedure for using your Luck is as follows. Roll
two dice. If the number rolled is equal to or less than
your current LUCK score, you have been Lucky and
the result will go in your favour. If the number rolled
is higher than your current Luck score, you have been
Unlucky and you will be penalized

This procedure is known as Testing your Luck. Each
time you Test your Luck, you must subtract 1 point
from your current LUCK score, regardless of the out-
come. Thus you will soon realize that the more you
rely on luck, the more risky this will become.

Using Luck in Battles

In certain paragraphs you will be instructed to Test
your Luck and will then be told the consequences of
being Lucky or Unlucky. However, in battles, you
always have the option of using your Luck, either to
inflict more serious damage on a creature you have
just wounded or to minimize the effects of being
wounded yourself.

tL
If you have just wounded your opponent, you may
Test your Luck as described above. If you are Lucky,
you have inflicted a severe wound and may subtract 2
extra points from the creature’s sTAMINA score. How-
ever, if you are Unlucky, the wound turns out to be a
mere graze and you must restore 1 point to the
creature’s STAMINA (so that, instead of scoring the
normal 2 points of damage, you now score only 1).

If your opponent has just wounded you, you may Test
your Luck to try to minimize the wound. If you are
Lucky, you have managed to avoid the full damage of
the blow; restore 1 point of stAMINA (so that, instead
of causing 2 points of damage, it causes only 1). If you
are Unlucky, you have taken a more serious blow and
must subtract 1 extra STAMINA point from your total.

Remember that, whatever happens, you must subtract
1 point from your Luck score each time you Test your
Luck.

Restoring Skill, Stamina and Luck

Skill

Your skit score will not change much during your
adventure. Occasionally you may be told to decrease
your SKILL score (as the result of a serious wound to
your fighting arm, say) or to increase it (as a result of
finding a magical weapon, for instance). Your SKILL
score cannot exceed its Initial value unless you are
specifically told that it can. Drinking the Potion of
Skill (see below) will restore your sKILL to its Initial
level at any time except in the middle of a battle.

Stamina and Provisions
Your sTAMINA score will change a lot during your
adventure as you fight and undertake arduous tasks.
As you near your goal, your STAMINA level may be
dangerously low and battles may be particularly risky,
so be careful!

Your pouch and water flask contain enough Provisions
for ten meals. You may rest and eat at any time except
when engaged in a battle. Eating a meal restores 4
STAMINA points, When you eat a meal, add 4 points
to your STAMINA score and deduct 1 point from your
Provisions. A separate Provisions Remaining box is
provided on the Adventure Sheet for recording details
of your Provisions. Remember that you have a long
way to go, so use your Provisions wisely!

Remember too that your sTAMINA score may never
exceed its Inifial value unless you are specifically told

13
that it can Drinking the Potion of Strength (see
below) will restore your sTAMINA fo its Initial level at
any time except in the middle of a battle

Luck

Additions to your Luck score may be awarded during
the adventure when you have been particularly lucky
Details are given in the appropriate paragraphs of the
book. The main way in which your Luck score will
decrease is through Testing your Luck. As with sKILL
and STAMINA, your LUCK score may never exceed its
Initial value unless you are told that it can. Drinking
the Potion of Fortune (see below) will restore your
Luck to its Initial level and will increase your Initial
Luck by 1 point.

Equipment and Potions

You will start your adventure with a bare minimum of
equipment, but you may stumble across other items
during your travels. You are armed with a sword and
are dressed in leather armour You have a pouch to
hold some of your Provisions and money, and a
backpack to hold anything else you may wish to keep.
In addition to ten meals’ worth of Provisions, you
start your adventure with 20 Gold Pieces (and 1
scarlet pearl). Make a note of these items on your
Adventure Sheet.

In addition, you may take one bottle of a magical
potion which will aid you on your quest. You may
choose to take a bottle of any of the following:

Te

Potion of Skill — restores skiL1 points

Potion of Strength — restores sTAMINA points

Potion of Fortune — restores LUCK points and adds 1
to Initial Luck

This potion may be taken at any time during your
adventure (except when engaged in a battle). Taking a
potion will restore sKILL, STAMINA OF LUCK points to
their Initial level (the Potion of Fortune will also add 1
point to your Initial Luck score before your LUCK is
restored). Make a note on your Adventure Sheet when
you have drunk a potion.

15
ns

MONSTER ENCOUNTER BOXES

Tititial Tuitial Initial okill= oe =a
Skilt= Staming= Luck= Stamina= Stamuna= Stamingas
e-
Let at wt art orm ast ree —_
f EQUIPMENT: GOLD: Stille Skill Skitl=
Stamina= Starmina= Stamina=
POTIONS: Skill= § Skitl= Skill=
Stamina= Staitina= Staming=
T NOTES:
PROVISIONS oe eels

BACKGROUND

The westem stretches of the Black Ocean are notorious
for sudden squalls and storms. You pray to Hydana,
god of waters, and beseech him to distract his brother
Sukh the storm-god — or at least to divert him to some
other part of the world, Perhaps Hydana hears you,
but Sukh is a mighty god, capable of manifesting his
power in many places at once. At any rate, the Black
Ocean lives up to its reputation . . .

It takes you five days and nights to battle in your solo
craft through the storm. At last, as the sun sinks in fire
under the ocean, in the distance you glimpse the
looming cliffs of the Rockwall Islands in the south-
west. Only two more days, then, to Arion, if the
weather holds.

At noon on the third day you find a space in the
crowded quays of Arion and make your way up the
hill towards the royal palace. The city is as busy as
usual, with people going about their daily business,
but there is a curious listlessness about their actions
Your fame may gain you entry to the king and queen
themselves: if not, the Noble Council of Elders will] tell
you what is going on and the reason for the summon-
ing of adventurers to Arion,

King Jonthane and his sister Elegana, the co-rulers of
Arion, are indeed only too glad to hear of your arrival,

18

and you do not have to wait long before you are
summoned to the royal presence.

‘If only you'd arrived yesterday,’ Queen Elegana ex-
claims, as soon as you are standing before therm. ‘Or,
better, if only you’d never left after your last visit here
— when was it? Three years ago?”

‘Closer to four, my lady,’ you reply, and you shudder
at the memory of the evil you encountered then. ‘But
what can I do for you now?’

‘Nothing,’ the king replies bluntly. ‘I had to award the
quest to another. Time is vital, you see. You weren't
here, so I gave it to ...’ He gulps before continuing.
‘... Fang-zen of Jitar!’ The king holds up his hand to
forestall your protests, ‘I know, I know, he’s a nasty
piece of work. But even you have to admit that he’s
pretty good at what he does. And I had to choose the
best available. It’s my daughter, you see.’

19

Over the next ten minutes, the king stammers out his
tale. His daughter, the Princess Royal Telessa — only
fifteen years of age, but already famed throughout
Khul for her beauty and charm — had been kidnapped
a few weeks before, while out riding with some friends
just north of the city. The kidnappers showed they
meant business. The limbs of her friends had been
hacked from their bodies and left on the ground in the
form of a message: WAIT

Jonthane and Elegana of Arion are no fools, however.
While seeming to await the kidnappers’ message, they
secretly sent out carrier-pigeons in all directions. One
of them found you on Takio. If it weren’t for the
storm, you'd have been here on time.

‘No message arived until two days ago,’ Jonthane
continues, ‘I was so anxious ... my precious, my
Telessa ... When it came, it was no simple demand.
They — whoever they are, for the message was un-
signed — they want total control, for ever, over the
export of gold from the rich mines which Arion
controls. Now, this is far from being our only export,
but it is certainly a rich source of revenue. I have to
send a letter of agreement to the demand, signed with

20

the royal seal, in the hands of a single messenger. The
messenger is to travel due west of the city, alone, until
the kidnappers meet him.’

‘How will the kidnappers make themselves known to
the messenger?’ you ask.

‘Their message was accompanied by locks of Telessa’s
hair, crudely shorn with some blunt knife. Her hair is
unmistakable, like fine-spun gold, shot through with
russet light. They will greet the messenger with more
of her hair — or with her head if the messenger fails to
bring my letter, or does not travel alone,’

You stay with the king and queen for some minutes
more, offering to help in any way you can. But it is
too late: your rival, Fang-zen, has the job. ‘What did
you offer him?’ you ask. ‘The usual fee for such work,’
the king replies. ‘Half our kingdom.’

When it is appropriate to do so, you leave the royal
presence and wander back into town. Turn to 1

eed

I-32

1
Several hours and several taverns later, you find your-
self in the dockland area of the city, in a seedy dive
called ‘The Barnacled Keel’. Talking of barnacled keels,
the warts on the barman’s face _.. It seems that,
however much you drink, the clearer your head be-
comes. The image of the beautiful young princess
being manhandled by ruffians keeps appearing in your
mind, and makes you curse your bad luck in failing to
reach Arion in time. Will you travel west out of Arion
anyway, to see if you can find Fang-zen or the kidnap-
pers {turn to 200), or will you stay in Arion (tur to
64)?

2
Two giant rats scuttle out of a hole in the passage
wall and attack you. You will have to fight them
separately. Fight one of them — whichever one you
choose — as normal. The other rat gets a free attack
against you: if its Attack Strength is higher than yours
in any Attack Round, it injures you, but you cannot
wound it because you are occupied in fighting its
cousin.

SKILL STAMINA
First GIANT RAT 5 4
Second GIANT RAT Dy 4

If you win and you want to put your hand into the
hole the rodents came out of in order to see what you
can find, turn to 40. Otherwise, continue down the
tunnel by turning to 275.

3-6

You succeed only in disturbing a family of large rats,
one of which nips you on the forearm. Reduce your
STAMINA by 1 point, then leave the room by turning
to So,

4
You have scarcely entered the margins of a marsh

when the mists come down. You try to retreat out of
the marsh but, whichever way you turn, you seem to
be going deeper into ‘it. You sit, shivering, for hours
on a grassy tussock but it looks as though the mist
will never clear. You hope that you can catch a
glimpse of the sun to restore your sense of direction
as well as your hope, but the mists are too thick, and
eventually you're no longer sure whether it is daytime
or moonlit night, Will you sit and wait a little longer
(turn to 242) or get up, even though any movement
seems hopeless (turn to 236)?

5
‘Ha! I might have guessed you'd tum up,’ Fang-zen

sneers. ‘And you want to fight me? You must be joking.
You aren‘t worth it.’ He tums his back on you and
pretends to be deeply interested in what one of the other
men is saying. Will you strike him while his back is
tumed (tum to 390) or tum and leave the bar (turn to 89)?

6
You turn to a nearby hut, but a black-feathered arrow
wings towards you from an unseen archer. It just
grazes you (lose 1 STAMINA point), but it puts you off

7-10

searching the village. You can continue to the north
(turn to 207) or tum west (turn to 34).

7
Ogres are not noted for their intelligence. ‘Me?’ he
says. ‘There's no one living here called Me.’ He pulls a
double-headed axe from his belt and lumbers down
the pathway. You just have time to get to your feet
and draw your sword. Turn to 397.

8

The mist descends again, but you are walking up a
slope, so you carry on, hoping that at the top you will
break through into sunshine Anyway, if you carry on
climbing, in as straight as line as possible, you can’t go
wrong, can you? The slope isn’t particularly steep, but
a terrible weariness overcomes you and you feel as
though you want to sleep. Test your Luck. If you are
Lucky, turn to 295; if you are Unlucky, turn to 81.

The floor is clearly visible now, some way below you,
but there is one more side tunnel for you to float past
(turn to 67) or enter (turn to 33).

10
You step out along the cobbled street until you catch
up with the ghastly hag. ‘Here,’ you say, ‘Tl buy some
of your heather. How much is it?’ You find her price of
1 Gold Piece outrageous, but she insists that the
heather is really lucky, Will you pay her price {turn to
83) or not (turn to 388)?
11-12

11

The roof bursts into fame with a satisfying roar, and
soon the elders are pouring out of the hut, coughing
and half blinded by the smoke You laugh silently to
yourself from your vantage point behind one of the
other huts. You are about to leave the village when
you see one of the elders hesitate then dash back into
the smoke-filled hut! Will you follow him (turn to 120)
or make your escape while the village is in chaos (tum
to 302)?

Ia

You step forward and discover the huddled figure of a
middle-aged peasant woman: she is dying from a
terrible beating. Before breathing her last, however,
she manages to gasp out her tale. The half-giant, Otus,
forced her to put him up in her cottage. She was the
only one in the village he feared at all, since she was a
medicine woman and knew a few potions and spells,
and he wanted to keep an eye on her while he waited
for you to arrive from Arion. Late last night she tried
to burn him alive by setting fire to her own home and

13

then fleeing, but he followed her, unharmed, and
caught up with her in a stand of oak trees. Once he
had finished with her, he left her for dead, ‘But J
wasn't quite dead,’ she says. ‘I came home to die, And
he dropped something while he was busy murdering
me, I don’t know what it is, but I've put an Invisibility
spell on it.’ She tells you how to undo the spell, then
slips gently into death. When you find yourself in a
stand of oaks, add 50 to the number of the paragraph
you are at, and you will find whatever it is Otus lost.
For now, you bury the woman with reverence and
leave the village. You feel too sad to spend the night
with her ghost in what remains of her cottage, so you
camp out in the open. Turn to 278

13
The vile flames die down again and the smoke parts to
form a kind of archway. You tentatively walk through
. and there, spread out before you, are the ruins of
the central temple of the ancient civilization which
used to occupy this land. The shattered stones and
marble pillars lie in rubble on the ground, no more
than knee-high. Nevertheless, there is a powerful aura
of goodness in this place, and that must be why the
evil that now inhabits the land set up the miasma to
guard it. You are blessed: you may add 2 to your
Initial Luck score, and restore your LucK up to this
new level. A sheer cliff rises beyond the ruins; there is
no path further north, so you leave the sacred spot
and head south. You can now either try to cross the
river by means of the bobbing platforms (turn to 269)
or continue southwards past them (turn to 220).
14-16

14
There is deep water on either side of the ford, and in

places the shallows are clogged with the river's foul
debris, but the ford is still broad enough for you to
walk confidently along it. It is also broad enough,
however, to offer a secure footing for the Granochin
which lives in the river beside it, The monster rises out
of the depths, dripping slime and weed, and its talons
reach on sinewy arms for your throat

GRANOCHIN SKILL 8 STAMINA 10

If you have a throwing-knife, you can use it before
you fight to reduce the creature’s STAMINA by 4
points or its skILL by 1 point (your choice). If you win,
you will not be able to retrieve the knife, however,
since the body of the beast will sink back into the
depths. If you win, you make it safely the rest of the
way to the western bank. Turn to 159.

sto)

You made it! You crawl along the passage beyond the
lava pool while your ears strain in dread of hearing
another fireball approaching behind you. Luckily, noth-
ing happens and you eventually break through the far
end of the tunnel. You stand and greedily gulp in
great lungfuls of air. Even the bitter air of Deathmoor
tastes sweet after your ordeal. You press on with your
quest, Turn to 382.

16
When there is no certainty about which way you
should turn, how do you decide? Some crows are

17-19

wheeling in the air in the distance to the east, so you
head in that direction because at least something is
happening there. It turns out that the crows are circling
in anticipation of a feast — a feast of human flesh,
which is the kind Khulian crows prefer. Standing at the
tise of a low hill, you look down on a man slumped
apainst a solitary, lightning-blasted tree. He is terribly
wounded but is still just alive. Where are his assailants?
This could be a trap. Will you look for his attackers
(turn to 193) or go down straight away to see if you
can help (turn to 344)?

17

The guard checks, but no one knows of anyone with
that name, and there’s no one resembling your vague
description in the bar where you send the guards. You
decide to turn in for the night; turn to 388.

18

As you make your way down the tunnel it gets
smaller and smaller, until you are wriggling along on
your stomach, with your sword probing the blackness
ahead. You are beginning to wonder if this tunnel will
be your tomb. It becomes impossible to keep your
backpack on your back, Will you loop it round your
belt and trail it behind you (turn to 377) or push it
ahead of you, along with your sword (tum to 175)?

19
Not all giants are stupid. Otus recognizes you and
signals to Ophis. You turn to flee, but a crossbow bolt
pierces your heart, Your adventure ends here

20-22

20

You blunder around in the dark, knocking over piles of
boxes which turn out to be the Baron’s files containing
paperwork that goes back for years. The closed room
fortunately contains the noise you're making, but you
are soon enveloped in an invisible snowstorm of
papers. You grab a handful at random and feel around
the walls until you find a door. Roll one dice. If you
roll a 6, turn to 261; otherwise, turn to 142

21

Roll two dice. If the total is less than, or equal to, your
current SKILL score, tum to 186; otherwise, turn to
118.

22

You are overcome by fumes before you reach the
other side. You lose consciousness and are not aware
that your body is falling into the pool of molten lava

EE ee eee

23-24

23
As you reach the bar, the landlord is bidding farewell
to the man he’d been talking to. All you hear him say
is the end of the man’s name: ‘... garl, see you then.’
He turns to you and demands 1 Gold Piece for the
knife-marks you made on his table-top. Will you pay
(turn to 48) or point out that the rest of his furniture is
hardly Jess scarred and battered (turn to 145)?

24
You pause after your ordeal and take out your compass
ta decide where to go next. A slight noise behind you
makes you whirl around, and you face a beast you
recognize as a Hargon. This bear-like creature always
hunts near water, since it lives mainly on fish. But it is
not averse to eating warm-blooded creatures. It rears
up on its hind legs, its snout wrinkling as its mouth
opens in an ear-splitting roar

HARGON SKILL 7

To your dismay, your compass is irretrievably lost
during this fight. If you win, turn to 311.

STAMINA 10

25-27

25
The rocky faces on either side of you are pitted with
natural depressions, some only big enough for a bird
to nest in, others almost cave-like. There are also
fissures in the ground, none of which are too wide for
you to step over. The gulley is narrow and, at this
time of day, almost dark, but as you step over one
fissure you catch the glint of something white in it.
Will you stop to investigate (tum to 121) or carry on
(turn to 146)?

26
When a small fireball hurtles down the tunnel towards
your face, you are able to manoeuvre the shield into
position and protect yourself, Tum to 199.

27
The man is dead when you reach him and can tell you
nothing now. Night is beginning to fall, You have
come from the west, so will you now head north (turn
to 289), south (turn to 57) or east (turn to 246)?

28-30

28

The huge, gaudy gambling wheel stands upright
against a wall at the back of the tavem. !f you pay her
a Gold Piece, the innkeeper’s beautiful assistant will
spin the wheel for you. If the wheel stops at the
number you bet on, you win double your stake; if not,
you lose. Tonight your luck is in, Roll one dice. This is
the number of Gold Pieces you win at the Wheel of
Fortune. If you won 5 or 6 Gold Pieces, turn to 329;
otherwise, turn to 388.

29

In order to get back safely, you have to repeat the
process of leaping from tussock to tussock that got
you here. You can count either from 1 up to 6 or
down from 6 to 1 if you prefer. If you ever fall in, turn
to 226. If you are successful all six times, you now
turn towards the north, deciding that you should have
done this in the first place. Turn to 207.

30
Regain 1 Luck point for surviving a difficult fight.
Moreover, you find 4 Gold Pieces on Fang-zen’s body,
together with 3 portions of Provisions and a lamp. But
all this is small compensation for the fact that, by the
time you try to pick up Otus’ trail again, it has gone
cold. It is as if he has vanished into thin air. It is now
evening, so you decide to rest for the night. There is a
village called Outpost a short way to the north, and the
edge of a great forest lies to the south. Will you seek
shelter in Outpost (turn to 52) or in the forest (turn to
165), or will you stay out in the open (turn to 278)?

eS

31-34

31
Will you approach the elders’ hut (turn to 360) or one
of the other huts (turn to 198)?

52
You find only 1 Gold Piece on the Ogre’s body and
his axe is too heavy for you to wield Will you now
scramble through the open window (tum to 77 or push
through the hatch (turn to 237)?

53
No sooner have you entered the side tunnel than two

things happen simultaneously: you see that it is a dead
end — and bars clang down over the entrance behind
you! If you have some sallow-seed oil, turn to 123;
otherwise, furn to 258,

34
Before long you reach a place where the tussocks of

mud and grass grow sparser and there is more water
in between. Will you carry on into this region (turn to
221) or go north (turn to 207)?

35-37

35
These are poor fishermen and they have never heard

of Fang-zen. You can go to the market-place now, if
you still need to (turn to 150), or you can head west
out of Arion in search of the kidnappers (tum to 200)

36

This is the right move. You offer your sword, held flat
in both hands, to the nearest skeleton. The dreadful
crowd pressing in on you from all sides halts its
creaking advance; they can see you are a servant of
Good, not of the Evil that reduced them to their
present pitiful state. Regain 1 Luck point. You decide
to retrace your steps southwards; turn to 355.

37
You had the good sense to secrete the implement up

your sleeve and now you slip it down into the palm of
your hand and set to work on the ropes tying your
wrists to the pole. There are two strands of rope to
get through. Roll one dice twice. If either roll is a 1 or
a 6, turn to 101; otherwise, turn to 256

38-39

38

No sooner do your hands touch the window-ledge
than a sharp stinging sensation runs down your arms:
the Baron’s poison is a very effective antidote against
would-be burglars. Now you understand how the
birds came to die! You scramble quickly back down
the ivy. Roll one dice. If the number rolled is even,
your body took in enough of the poison to kill you
and your adventure ends here! If it is odd, you lose 4
STAMINA points. If you are still alive, you decide to
try to lift the hatch which you hope wil] lead to a
cellar. Turn to 242.

3
Some faint stench of Arachnos’ evi] invades your
spirit, Lose 1 LucK point then turn back to 253 to try
again,

40-41

40
A brood of sharp-toothed, baby Giant Rats attach
themselves to your fingers and hand. You yelp in pain
and surprise, pull your hand out of the hole and shake
the creatures off your hand on to the floor, where they
wriggle helplessly. Only a sense of urgency stops you
taking the time to squash them under your heel.
Deduct 2 points from your sTAMINA and turn to 275.

41
The search-party sees you flitting from one hut to
another and they release the Rottwild which has been
tracking you. The huge hound races towards you and
leaps for your throat, its fangs bared in a snarl.

ROTTWILD SKILL 6

If you win, you emerge from the fight to find yourself
completely surrounded by Flintskins. Your blood is up
now, though: will you try to fight your way free (tum
to 266) or will you surrender (turn to 352)?

STAMINA 6

42-44

42

You press on towards the south, wondering whether
you may have made a mistake. By mid-afternoon you
reach an enormous landslip, and now you find yourself
at the top of an unscalable cliff. You can hear a
waterfall off to your left - that must be yesterday's
river. The view is wonderful, but you are not here to
be a sightseer, so you turn west along the edge of the
cliff. The unusual terrain is home to many rare plants —
and to some not-so-common creatures too. Out of
nowhere, you are suddenly attacked by a huge Pterolin
whose nest is perched on the cliff-face. Its feathers are
as black as night, glowing with a brilliant blue sheen in
the sunlight; its talons are dripping gore from a recent
kill, but it is always hungry for more.

PTEROLIN SKILL 6 STAMINA 7

If you win, and you have a rope, you can let yourself
down to its nest, if you wish (tum to 285). Otherwise,
you continue westwards (turn to 368)

43
You have been forced to retreat under one of the

stilted houses where a ladder leads up to a hole in the
middle of the floor of the house. You could either try
to climb up the ladder (turn to 149) or smash through
one of the stilts that support the house (turn to 334);

alternatively, you could retum to 361 and continue the
fight

44
Your invisible opponent grabs you by the ankles, pulls

45-46

you down to the ground and tries to finish you off
with 2 single blow to the head. But as soon as you hit
the floor, you roll to one side prior to getting to your
feet, Do you roll to the left {tum to 314) or the right
(turn to 240)?

45
You stumble in shock and pain, and fall into the river.
While you are struggling back up the bank, choking
on the foul water, your opponent has no difficulty in
finishing you off, Your corpse will join those of the
fish in the putrid river.

46
The Flintskins don't know what to make of you, They are
not servants of Evil and they sense that you aren't either,
but your behaviour has nat endeared you to them. They
give you back all your possessions and escort you out of
their safe gorge, making copious gestures to indicate that
they don't want to see you back here again. Turn to 16.

47-49

47
You approach the Mere-fofk but, since you lack the
wherewithal to communicate with them, they interpret
your approach as hostile, and they prepare to defend
themselves. You cannot kill or wound these insubstan-
tial beings, but if you are successful often enough you
will have frightened them off. They wield thin stalks
of bulrush, magically empowered so that the lightest
touch will injure you in the usual way,

MERE-FOLK SKILL 6

It will take a total of seven successful Attack Rounds,
or three in succession, to scare them off. Then turn to
253.

STAMINA O

48
Deduct 1 Gold Piece from your Adventure Sheet. You
now leave the tavern; turn to 584.

49
You manage to pull yourself up on to the step. You
feel unsafe here, so you clamber up to the landing at
the top of the stairs. You can go no higher in the
building, and you find that only one of the rooms is
safe to enter. But there you make an interesting discov-
ery: the collapse of the staircase has opened up a long-
forgotten hiding-place in the wall of the room: Inside
is a bottle of potion and a sheet of papyrus, preserved
for all these years in their airtight compartment, There
is ancient Kabeshian writing on the papyrus, which
tells you that the potion is a Potion of Invisibility.
Add 1 tuck point. Now, how will you get down from

50-51

here? You can jump down from the stairway on to
what is left of the ground floor (tum to 115) or you
can jump through the hole in the ground floor into the
flooded basement, and pray that the water is deep
enough (turn to 157). If you have a rope, you can find
a secure place to tie it and let yourself down safely to
the floor You can then leave the building, but you
will also have to leave your rope behind (tum to 219).

_ 5°
On the western side, the Baron’s house runs very close
to the wall for some distance; to the south, the garden
may give you cover once you're in the grounds. Will
you climb the western wall (turn to 185) or the
southern wall (turn to 60)?

51
You have luckily chosen a spot where, if you can
defeat a Wraith quickly enough, you will be able to
make a dash for safety.

WRAITH SKILL 7 STAMINA 8

If you defeat your adversary without taking any hits
yourself, tum to 196; otherwise, turn to 108.

52-54

52
The inhabitants of Outpost lock up early and are
deeply suspicious of strangers. Shutters are closed
with a bang as you walk down the only street. You
get the message: we don’t want your kind here. Will
you turn around and retrace your steps, or persist in
trying to spend the night here? If you stay, tum to
102. If you leave, the forest is too far away to reach
before nightfall, so you must spend the night in the
open (turn to 278).

3
As everyone knows, once the hands of a Ghoul have
struck you four times, you are paralysed. But you are
still aware. You watch in helpless horror as the Ghoul’s
yellow teeth draw closer and closer . .

54
You run away, leaving the Millipede behind, but it
continues to follow you. Back at the main tunnel, you
turn left and hurry on past the other entrance to the
Millipede’s lair. Tum to 275.

55-57

55
After some hours of lonely travel, you are surprised

by a vile Slime Monster, an almost shapeless blob of
foul-smelling flesh which fights by shooting acid out
of its mouths.

SLIME MONSTER SKILL 9 STAMINA 12

You can escape at any time by tuming to either 154
or 214, but in escaping you will have to suffer the loss
of 3 STAMINA points, If you win, the vile creature
explodes as your sword delivers the killing blow. Roll
one dice: if you roll an odd number, you must lose 2
STAMINA points as you are hit by pieces of its acidic
flesh. Then turn to 154 or to 214.

56

You present yourself at the guardsman’s office. ‘Good
work,’ he says. ‘Good observation. Your one-eyed
chappie broke down (with a little help from our resi-
dent torturer} and confessed. Any titne you want a
job, just come and talk to me. In the meantime, you
can choose one of these three rewards: a Truthstone,
25 Gold Pieces, or a shield. Which do you want?’ If
you decide on the truthstone, turn to 95; if you go for
the money, turn to 35%; if you choose the shield, tum
to 384

57
You stumble on as best you can, as night falls and the

mists come down, but you are totally confused now,
Half-seen, half-recognized shapes loom, eerily glowing,
out of the darkness and ure you to your death over a cliff.

LL eee

58-59

58

After a while, the river begins to curve to the west,
but the path continues more or fess due south. Al-
though it is overgrown with weeds and shrubs, there
are occasional patches where you can still see cobble-
stones: this must once have been a road, long ago. At
one point you find a shattered milestone. All you can
read of the first line is the first letter, which is ‘P’, then
after some space ‘OUS', while the second line reads
clearly ‘WELL’. Precious Well? Poisonous Well? It's
impossible to tell, You carry on, but the road ends
abruptly at a huge landslide, which leaves you perched
on the top of a huge cliff, There is no further way
forward here, and you can hear the sound of a waterfall
roaring some way off to your right, as you gaze out
over that vast region of Khul known as the Battle-
grounds, You decide that your safest option will be to
return to the ford you passed earlier; turn to 14.

59
There is only one way to go along the passage which
ends at a T-junction, whete you can turn left or right,
The tunnel to the right looks dusty and unused and is

60

only dimly lit; the one to the left is lit by many
torches and you can hear indistinct sounds of activity
coming from it. Will you turn right (turn to 131) or
left (turn to 272}?

60

You scramble up the wall, assisted by a low-hanging
branch of a rare Allansian Flare tree, part of the
Baron’s renowned arboretum. You rest on top of the
wall and peer around. Beyond the flower-bed a well-
kept lawn stretches almost to the rear of the house. A
number of unusual trees stand in the grounds, and
there are also patches of dense shrubbery. Although in
the twilight you can see no smoke, your nose picks up
the familiar smell of smouldering leaves and garden
waste, It would be sheer idiocy to cross the open
lawn, so will you approach the house by creeping
stealthily round the walls and beds to your left (turn
to 308) or to your right (turn to 350)?

ee ae ee ee
61-63

61
Your jabbing is ineffectual. You squirm and scrabble at
the tussock, but it is no use. Your body, your head
and, finally, your outstretched arms disappear beneath
the surface of the water. Your adventure ends here,

62

You point your sword menacingly in the direction of
the shape in the corner. Light from the rising moon
glints softly on the, blade and gives you courage.
‘Who's there?’ you call out softly, but a pathetic
whimper is the only response, The unknown is always
frightening and fear is beginning to chill your heart
once more. Will you now change your mind and strike
at the shape (turn to 179) or persist in a gentler
approach (tum to 12)?

63

You double up as if in pain: you retch, grunt and
grimace. The guards get the message: something is
wrong with you. But do they believe you? Tesf your
Luck. If you are Lucky, turn to 201. If you are Unlucky,
the guards laugh scornfully at your feeble attempt to
trick them; they make doubly sure your bonds are
secure. Turn to 160.

64-65

64
The noise in the bar is deafening. All you can hear is
snatches of nearby conversations. ‘No, it was you who
said that to her,’ a young woman shrieks.

‘Five shinies? You must be joking,’ a sailor growls

. or my name's not Per—' the man talking to the
barman says.

‘Did you hear the one about the Allansian and the
... 7 someone else asks.

td

‘Baron den Snau: he’s the evil son of a lizard who

Will you try to find a place to sit (turn to 75) or leave
and look for another tavern (turn to 222)?

65
Test your Luck, If you are Lucky, the collapsing hut
halves the remaining stamina of both your opponents
(or of your remaining opponent, if only one is left);
round odd numbers upwards when you halve their
STAMINA scores. [f you are Unlucky, the hut misses
them altogether. Now return to 361 to finish the fight,

66-67

66

You pull out the medallion and dangle it in the air in
front of Otus’ eyes; this does the trick. He signals to
Oman, and the steel-mesh net is drawn up by the
pulley, You walk under it and are now faced by three
enormous half-giants who are demanding to know
your business. If you know a secret about two of
them, add the number of the paragraph where you
learned that secret to the number of this paragraph,
then turn to the paragraph with that number. Other-
wise, furn to 7o.

67

The magical descent comes to an end with you landing
gently on the stone floor of a deep underground
tunnel. You quickly take stock of the situation and see
that there is only one way forward. As you take your
first step, however, a hollow, horribly sinister laugh
freezes you in your tracks. It seems to come from in
front of you, but there is nothing to be seen. You hear
a faint swishing sound and some sixth sense, honed
from years of adventuring, makes you duck. This is
just as well, because otherwise you would have been
decapitated. “Very good, booms a deep voice, ‘but
remember; you have to be lucky every time, while I
have to be lucky only once.’ If you have a Potion of
Invisibility, turn to 320; otherwise, turn to 374.

68

68

This will, of course, take you towards the source of
the river's pollution. The stench in the afternoon sun is
appalling. Short of swimming, which you definitely
don’t fancy, there is no way to cross the river here.
Ahead of you, an unearthly grey cloud, streaked with
gouts of livid green flame, appears between two hills:
this is obviously the source of the pollution. Then you
come across a series of platforms which resemble
stepping-stones across the river, except that they are
bobbing on the surface. Will you make for the grey-
green cloud (turn to 169), try to cross the river on the
bobbing platforms (turn to 269), or retrace your steps
and head downstream (turn to 220)?

69-71

69
You are walking through the !and of the Flintskins, a
primitive tribe which has survived for many centuries
in these parts. A party of about twenty of these
sturdy, pale-skinned hunters ambushes you. They are
well armed with spears and bows. Will you fight (turn
to 166) or not (turn to 389)?

7o
You will have to fight all three haif-giants at once! In
each Attack Round, choose which opponent you are
fighting; you win or lose as normal against him. Either
of the other two can wound you if his Attack Strength
is higher than yours in that round, but you cannot
injure either of them until they become your chosen
opponents — if you survive that long!

SKILL STAMINA
OPHIS 8 12
OMAN 8 sae)
OTUS 9 12

If by some miracle you win, and if you have a Truth-
stone, you can use it on the dying Otus and demand to
be told how to defeat Arachnos (tum to 298). If you
win, but you do not have a Truthstone, turn to 284.

74

You are falling, floating magically down a hole which
is lit by the phosphorescent glow of the rocks. Side
tunnels lead off from the hole; will you take the side
tunnel which you are approaching (turn to 372) or will
you wait (turn to 98)?

72-75

92

In this fight, beware the Baron’s sword, which is
dipped in poison. He only has to nick you for the
poison to enter your bloodstream. If you are wounded
twice, you are dead. If you are wounded only once,
you are strong enough to withstand the poison, but
your Provisions will restore only 3 points to your
STAMINA for the rest of this adventure.

BARON DEN SNAU SKILL 7
If you defeat the Baron, turn to 119.

STAMINA 12

73
You plunge deep into the bog. It becomes increasingly

hard to walk: at every step you have to extract your
foot with a squelch from thick mud. This is exhausting
and by the time you reach the other side you have
lost 2 STAMINA points. Tum to 24

74
It is easy for your opponent to see your swing and

dodge it, and you leave yourself exposed. He thnuasts
the pointed end of his mace up into your chest and
twists it savagely, to make sure that the blow is fatal.
Your adventure is over.

75
You elbow your way through to the back of the room.
Several faces in the crowd look vaguely familiar —
fellow adventurers, no doubt, come to Arion on the
same mission as yourself, and also trying to drown
their disappointment in a flagon or two of ale. And

76-97

there, sitting at a table with half a dozen empty
flagons in front of him, is Fang-zen himself! Surrounded
by cronies, he looks flushed with ale, success and his
companions’ toadying praise. Will you challenge him
to a fight {tum to 5) or try to join the group at his
table (turn to 268)?

76
After you have been trudging through the treacherous
pools for ages, a strange sensation begins to creep
over you: you feel impelled to tum in one particular
direction. If you give in to this feeling, turn to 365.
Otherwise, tur to 195.

77
You find yourself in a rather elegant high-ceilinged

ballroom. Large, gold-framed portraits of the Baron’s
ancestors hang on the walls, but the pictures look

78-79

suspiciously new to you, and you decide that the

Baron’s noble lineage may be pure invention. Apart

from a chandelier and some tables against the walls,
the room is bare. There are two sets of double doors
leading out of the ballroom. You extinguish the lamp
which the Ogre left in the room so that no light spills
out through the doors, but the lamp rattles noisily, so
you don’t take it with you. A quick glance through
both sets of doorways confirms your guess that they
both lead to the main, entrance-hall of the house. Will
you go through to the hall (turn to 197) or climb back
outside and down the hatch (turn to 237)?

78
The skeleton recounts a fascinating tale of dark deeds
and warns you to stay away from the ruined farm-
house. (Cross the Truthstone off your Adventure Sheet.)
You may now go northwards (turn to 263) or turn
around and head south (turn to 355).

79
You wipe your sword clean on the grass of the moor

and tum to walk away. With a roar the Cradoc rears
up behind you and scorches you with its breath (lose 2
STAMINA points), Now you remember: a Cradoc regen-
erates unless it is killed by having one of its heads
chopped off! But which head is it?

CRADOC SKILL 7 STAMINA 8

If you win, with your final stroke will you chop off the
Dragon head (turn to 168) or the Ogre head (tum to

147)

80-82

80
The door swings shut behind you, blocking out the
last remnant of the evening light from outside. Do
you have a tinderbox? If you have, turn to 109; if not,
turn to 20,

81

You wake up in the middle of a Eypical falling dream,
in which you were leaning over a balcony, waving to
someone, and then ... But if you're awake, why are
you still falling? You land with a crash at the bottom
of a small ravine over which you have sleep-walked,
Deduct 4 points from your sTAMINA. If you are still
alive, you find that the mist has dispersed, but where
are you? Turn to 379.

82
You soon come to a junction, but the tunnel to the
right leads directly back to the bottom of the magical
tunnel you were recently floating down. You can see
no point in returning there, so you carry straight on,
down a dimly lit tunnel, Turn to 134.

83-86

83

Cross 1 Gold Piece off your Adventure Sheet, The hag
bites the coin to make sure it is genuine before
scuttling off down a back alley. You wait for something
to happen, but nothing does. You hurl the crumbling
heather on to the ground in anger, and scratch at the
bite one of the crone’s countless lice has already given
you. Turn to 388

84
Your bolt pierces Arachnos’ black heart. His
mocking laughter turns to a choked scream, and the
dagger falls from his nerveless fingers. Telessa rushes
into your arms. Without its leaders, Arachnos’
army will soon turn to civil war. The land is safe .
for now.

85

Only the ground and first floors of the building
remain, and the first floor consists of just a landing,
which is reached by stone stairs from the entrance hail
where you are standing, plus a couple of rooms off it.
The ruin is open to the sky and the marble floor of the
entrance hall has partially collapsed. You can climb the
stairs to the landing (turn to 138) or leave the building
after all (turn to 219)

86
You bury your head under your forearms as best you
can, but you still sustain 4 sTAMINA points of injury
to your head and shoulders, Turn to 199.

a ee, |

87

87

That is exactly what Fang-zen was waiting for. He
leaps up from his stool and lands the first blow on you
while your back is turned (deduct 2 points from your
STAMINA). You can count yourself lucky that he is
rather drunk, Usually he is more or less your equal in a
fight, but at the moment his sxiLt is 3 less than
whatever yours is, and his sTAMINA is 10. If you win
the fight, you have not killed him, merely hurt him
badly. You wait for him to regain consciousness, then
demand King Jonthane’s letter from him. You point
out that he’s now in no &t condition to carry out the
quest.

‘That’s what you think, scumbag,’ Fang-zen snarls.
‘And I haven‘t got the letter here. While we were
fighting, a friend took it away and hid it. Too bad for
you,’ he sneers

There's nothing you can do. You search him — and
have to put up with his foul breath while you do so -
but he’s telling the truth. You leave the tavern, and
now you either have to head west out of Arion (turn
to 200) or wander elsewhere in the city (turn to 222),

88-90

88

A sturdy half-giant steps out from behind some boul-
ders. ‘I am Otus,’ he says. "You have something for
me. I believe ... A letter.’ Once he has shown you a
lock of the princess's golden hair, you hand over King
Jonthane’s letter of agreement. As the half-giant reads
the letter, his face lights up with dark malice. ‘Good,’
he declares at last. ‘My brothers and my master,
Arachnos, will be pleased.’ If you have heard the name
Arachnos before, turn to 137; otherwise, turn to 231.

89

You succeed in tying the thread on to the needle in
such a way that the needle is swinging free and hori-
zontally. You rest the needle on the lodestone, where
it sticks, then you wait a few minutes for the magic to
transfer from the stone to the metal needle. You now
have a crude compass. You don’t know where you are,
but you do know that you entered the marsh from the
east and south. It makes sense, then, to assume that
the further side of it may be reached by going to the
west (tum to 34) or to the north (turn to 362).

go

‘Him?’ the guard says. ‘Oh yes, we know him. And he
regularly works for those two over there. You could
have been a great help. Come to our station first thing
tomorrow moming. You'll find me in room 56: take a
note of the number. If your information has led to an
arrest, there'll be something in it for you’ Will you
now go to the Elfbane Bar across the road (tum to
189) or call it a day (turn to 388)?

91-94

91
You poke around in the burned-out house and, as the
young man had said, find the body of a middle-aged
woman. There is nothing else to be seen except piles
of ash and badly burned beams. When you retum to
the other cottage, you find the door firmly barred
against you, ‘Go away!’ the man yells through the door,
‘You're not welcome here any more. Anyone interested
in people dying is not for me.’ You resent the injustice
of it — you have paid the man, after all. You try to barge
down the door but succeed only in bruising your
shoulder. (Deduct 1 sTAMINA point.) You have no
choice now but to camp out in the open. Tur to 278.

92
You wait until the Orc regains consciousness. If you
have a Truthstone and want to use it on the Marsh
Orc, tum to 205; otherwise, it can tell you nothing.
You leave it cringeing in the bog and continue on
your way by turning to 55, 154 or 365.

93
You lose. The spurting blood is coming from a deep

gash in your own hand. Deduct 2 sTAMINA points and
6 Gold Pieces (that was your wager). If you want to
play again, return to 132. Otherwise you leave the
tavern and may now either head west out of Arion
(turn to 200) or go elsewhere in the city (turn to 222).

94
You pass another tunnel on the left with the same rank
smell coming from it; it must be another entrance to

95-96

the same system. Once again you ignore it and hurry
straight ahead; turn to 2.

95
The Truthstone can be used once and once only. It

glows with an unearthly blue light which forces a
creature with any intelligence (that is, not a plant or a
rock, for instance) to tell the truth. Now burn to 357.

96

Before you have travelled far, you encounter a Cradoc
- and you soon wish you hadn't! These are two-
headed monsters, one of whose heads is Dragon-like,
while the other is Ogre-ish. You know that in the past
you've heard rumours about some special thing they
do, but you can’t remember what it is — and anyway
there is no time to think now, as the monster is
charging at you, Dragon head breathing fire, It races
towards you on all four legs, like a malformed lizard.

CRADOC SKILL 8 STAMINA 10

If you win, turn to 79.

97-100

97

Although it all happens too fast for your conscious
mind, you somehow register the fact that the dark
shape is Fang-zen and that he has hurled a spear at
you. You fall to the ground, and the spear ricochets
off a rock, snaps and falls harmlessly to the ground.
Then Fang-zen himself is upon you, seeking revenge
for the theft of his quest. He is a hardy adventurer too,
and his skiLL is only 2 less than yours, while his
STAMINA is 12. Only luck will see you through this
fight unscathed. If you win, turn to 30.

98
Another side tunnel] is coming up. Will you take it
itum to 172) or continue on down (tum to 220)?

99
Ahead of you you hear a slurping noise which does

not sound like the lapping of a rivulet of water, You
creep ahead and see a brown, slippery-looking human-
oid creature, kneeling on a tussock of grass and scoop-
mg up water with one hand. Will you attack it with
your sword (turn to 118) or jump on it and pin it to
the ground (turn to 21)? Or will you silently avoid it
(turn to either 154 or 365)?

.
«S

—

too

~

oat ne: You dash out through the front door and across the

As F ME OS™ & courtyard — only to find that the main gates are
NN s®& ee BOW AS =z locked. You can‘t pretend to the Ore porter that
WN CONROE SSS nothing suspicious is going on: you will have to fight
MAGS = - ~~ WAGs Se him before you can escape.

1o1

PORTER SKILL 6 STAMINA 6

if you win, and if you bribed the porter to get into the
Baron’s grounds, you can take back however much
you paid him before, plus 1 extra Gold Piece. You find
a set of keys in the porter’s gatehouse and use one to
unlock the gates. Then you waste no further time
before leaving the city and setting off westwards to
try to find the kidnappers. Turn to 200

101
The guards notice what you are up to. They untie you
from the pole and manhandle you in the direction of
the elders’ hut. If you want to try to escape at this
point, turn to 112; if you let them take you, tum to

352,

102-105

102
It is difficult to know what to do. The village consists
of only half a dozen peasant cottages, and there is no
tavern or obvious place to stay, There is a burned-out
shell of a cottage that looks uninhabited: if you spend
the night there, you may at least avoid these surly
villagers (turn to 224). Or you could knock on the
door of any of the inhabited cottages ~ for instance,
the one next door to the fire-damaged one (tum to
190).

103
Otus looks at the arrow in some puzzlement, then
snaps it between two fingers and signals to Ophis.
You tum to flee, but a crossbow bolt pierces your
heart.

104
This is too much. Sensibly, you turn tail and flee. The
tip of a green flame licks at your heels as you run, and
your shoes immediately rot and fall off. If you have a
spare pair of boots to wear, you put them on; if you
do not, you must reduce your skit by one point for
the rest of the adventure. You can now either try to
cross the river by means of the bobbing platforms
(um to 269) or continue southwards past them (turn
to 220).

105
If you have among your possessions either a moon
symbol or a sun symbol or both, tun to 180: other-
wise, turn to 46.

106-109

106

You enjoy a refreshing sleep which restores 2 lost
STAMINA points. In the moming you find a piece of
sharpened flint among the racks, possibly evidence of
a long-forgotten culture. A steep ravine rises a short
distance away to the north, and you have come from
the south, so will you now head east (turn to 399) or
west (tum to 4)?

. 107
You fail to spot a tripwire, stretched at ankle height
across the narrow path, and fall with a thud to the
ground, Somewhere inside the house a bell starts to
ring. You lie still, hardly daring to breathe. An Ogre
comes to the end of the path and peers along it. It is
rather gloomy here at this time of the evening, and
you may be able to bluff him. Before advancing down
the passage, he calls out, ‘Who's there?’ Will you say,
‘It’s only me’ (turn to 7), mew like a Scytheran Desert
Cat (turn to 213), or bark like a Kalagarian hound (tum
to 327)?

108
The Wraiths treat you to a particularly gruesome
death. You have failed in your mission.

109
You strike a light and see that you are in a storeroom
Small, wooden packing-cases are stacked one on top of
another in neat piles. Every case is stuffed with bits of
paper — letters, receipts, invoices, and so on — and
labelled with a date. It is now late in the second week

110

of the ninth month, which is called Forests Golden in
Khul. Will you search this month’s file (turn to 174) or
st month’s (turn to 312)?

110
The Orc rains blows on your head with a large
wooden spoon, but you shrug her off. You knock her
smconscious and search the hut, You find a pot of stew
sTmering over an open fire. The combination of red-
spotted toadstools and fish smells surprisingly pood,

aed you quickly gulp down 2 stamina points’ worth

et sustenance. You also find 3 Gold Pieces and a
medallion inscribed with the letter A which you may
take if you wish If you take the medallion, decide
whether you wear it next to your skin or under your
Sothing, or you can stow it among your other posses-
sions. If you want to have a look in another hut. turn
%2 6. If you want to leave the village. you can go to
Se north (turn to 207) or tum to the west (turn to 34).

141-114

111

The rumblings are coming from Arachnos’ forge. You
veer off into the mouth of this tunnel, only to find
that it slopes sharply downwards, You tumble down it
and eventually end up in the forge. You execute a
perfect roll, land on your feet, and face the truly
enormous Ogre who is Arachnos’ blacksmith, He
seizes a newly tempered blade from a rack and lunges
at you.

OGRE SMITH SKILL 8 STAMINA 12

If you win, the dying Ogre falls backwards, upending
a trough of molten metal. He dies in agony, and the
red-hot liquid spills all over the floor, leaving you no
choice but to leave by the forge door. You have time
to snatch only a helmet, marked with the letter A, if
you want to. In the passage outside, will you turn left
(tur to 176) or right (turn to 82)?

112
Roll three dice. If the total is less than, or equal to,
your current STAMINA score, turn to 191; otherwise,
turn to 129.

113
A small fireball hurtles down the tunnel towards youl
Will you use your backpack to protect yourself (turn
to 282) or not (turn to 86)?

114
Roll two dice. If the total is less than, or equal to, your
current SKILL, turn to 340; if not, turn to 107.

11§-1197

115
You swing by your fingertips from the last remaining
stair, so as to reduce the distance you have to fall,
then you let yourself go. If your current sTAMINA
score is under 12, you sprain your ankle on landing
and must lose 1 skiLL point. Now you can leave the
building; turn to 219.

116
With an ear-splitting screech from its savage beak, the
Pterolin attacks, The soulless glint of its eye is unnerv-
ing even to a hardened warrior like yourself

MALE PTEROLIN SKILL 7 STAMINA 8

You can escape down the tunnel at any time you like,
but you must lose 2 sTAMINA points as a talon rakes
your back (turn to 208). If you win, you can either go
down the tunnel (turn to 208) or climb back up the
rope and continue westwards along the cliff (turn to
368).

117
Assuming you have nothing better to do, will you go
to the market-place (turn to 150) or hang around the
docks (turn to 171)?

118-120

4118
The creature wheels around in pain and surprise at
your first strike, and you see that it is a Marsh Orc. It
hurls a lump of mud at you, which allows it time to
draw ils sword.

MARSH ORC SKILL 7

If you win, will you search the body (turn to 265) or
not? If you do not, turn to 154 or 365

STAMINA ©

119
The Baron lies dying on the floor, blood trickling from
the corner of his mouth and bubbling with his final
breaths. Will you now leave the house {tur to 200) or
question the Baron (tum to 244)?

120
You crouch down and run into the hut. Luckily nobody
spots you. Your eyes immediately smart and fill with
tears. You can hear the Flintskin fumbling around, then
you see his outline at the other end of the smoke-filled
room. He picks up something fom the floor and
grunts in satisfaction, You knock him to the ground
and grab whatever it is he went back for. Will you
now try to barge through the mud wall at the back of
the hut (turn to 194) or leave by the proper entrance
(turn to 376)?

121-122

121
You kneel and peer into the crack. A few centimetres
down is a small ledge, and the white object that
caught your eye turns out to be the skeleton of a small
animal - perhaps a hedgehog. Will you leave it alone
and hurry on (turn to 146) or poke around in the
fissure (turn to 241)?

122
Two of the fishermen look at each other. ‘We can’t help
you,’ one of them says, ‘but we know a man who can.
You'd better visit Baron den Snau; he has a finger in every
evil pie in north-east Khul, if you ask me.’ They give you
directions to the Baron’s mansion. If you think it’s worth
visiting the Baron, turn to 273; otherwise, you can visit
the market-place, if you still need to (turn to 150), or leave
Arion and go in search of the kidnappers (tum to 200).

123-124

123

You strip off your clothes, carefully laying them and
the rest of your equipment close to the bars. You oil
your whole body as much as the small quantity you
have allows and, by means of considerable contortion
(and at the cost of 1 STAMINA point), you squeeze
between the bars. You find yourself on a narrow ledge
between the bars and the drop, but it is wide enough
for you to stand on to get dressed and equipped
again. Then you finish your descent; turn to 67.

124

You have no chance in combat against a menacing
horde this size, but you may be able to offer them
something, to see if you can pacify them. Will it be:

Money? Turn to 362
A medallion? Turn to 338
Pearls? Turn to 255
Your sword? Turn to 36
Food? Turn to 301

*
‘
y

ay

-o- S
‘<i
~—

P

¥

yn
=

a

125-127

125
There is a wide courtyard between the gates and
the front of the house. You notice a small gatehouse
just inside the gates. It must be for a porter, so you
rattle the wrought-iron gates and call out, ‘Hello, is
anyone there?’ A suspiciously Orc-like porter sticks
his head out of the gatehouse and snarls, ‘Whaddya
want?’ You haven't finished explaining that you are
a businessman who wants to see the Baron, when
he interrupts by asking whether you have an appoint-
ment. Will you say yes (turn to 297) or no (turn to
323)

126

The damp air on the fringes of the marsh has raised a
plentiful crop of toadstools in the land you are now
crossing. You feel tempted to try some. Will you
sample some green-spotted toadstools (turn to 245),
some blue-spotted toadstools (tum to 136) or some
red-spotted toadstools (turn to 330)? Or will you resist
the temptation and press on {turn to 69)?

127
Your eyes receive the full force of the acid and you
ate temporarily blinded. Reduce your Attack Strength
by 5 points for this fight only

SPIT VIPER SKILL 4 STAMINA 4

If you win, you press on until you come to a place
where the river is fordable. You can either wade across
the river here (turn to 14) or continue south (turn to

58).

128-1350

128
Alerted by the sounds of the struggle, the Dark Elf
gardener creeps up behind you while you're rummag-
ing among the Opgre’s blood-soaked clothing and
swings his scythe at you. A brilliant light flares in
your head and then all is darkness — for ever.

129
You struggle, but the guards trip you up and pound
your head on the ground for a while. Deduct 2
STAMINA points, then turn to 352.

130
You race for the front door and slam it shut behind
you. You can’t go back in there: not even you can take
on so many bats at once. You sprint across the
courtyard for the main gates — but they are locked! If
you bribed the porter to get in, turn to 280; otherwise,
turn to 251.

L31-132

131
You turn a corner to your left but, after only a few
more metres, you find your way blocked by smooth
rock. There is a straight crack down the centre of the
rock, though, so you are sure this is some kind of
door. You look around and find a lever set into the
wall; it looks as if you can move it up (turn to 326) or
down (turn to 228).

152
You both spread your non-fighting hands on the table
and people at the table produce daggers for you. You
place your bets and start to stab the point of the knife
between your spread fingers. The game speeds up, but
you keep pace with each other. The onlookers roar
their approval as the silver blades begin to blur with
speed. You are now so much into the rhythm of the
game that you coolly dare to lift your eyes up from
your hand and stare at Fang-zen. This unnerves him:
he tries to meet your gaze but his eyes are constantly
flicking back down to the table. All of a sudden, blood
spurts! Roll two dice. If the total is less than, or equal
to, your SKILL score, fur to 327; if it is greater than
your SKILL score, turn to 93.

133-135

133
This is difficult. Roll four dice. [f the total rolled is less
than, or equal to, your current STAMINA score, you have
enough strength to reach the end of the gulley before
the boulder catches up with you and inflicts 6 STAMINA
points of injury on you. If you survive, turn to 146.

134
You pull the thread tight round what you reckon to be
the centre of the needle and lift it off your thigh. But
the needle slopes downwards and slips out of the
knot; it sinks immediately out of sight into the brackish
water of the bog. Tum to 2go.

135
The guard checks, but no one knows of anyone with
that name, and there’s no one resembling your vague
description in the bar where you send the guards. You
decide to tum in for the night; turn to 388

136-138

136

You suffer temporary paralysis. Roll one dice. If the
number rolled is even, the paralysis affects your
fighting arm and you must reduce your Attack
Strength by 2 points for the duration of this fight. If
it is odd, you suffer no major ill-effects. A Hoatzin
has begun its soaring descent out of the sky towards
you, with its wings folded under it so that the
claws projecting from its wingtips are aimed straight
at you. Its method of attack is to impale its victims
with these claws, then tear at their flesh with its
barbed beak.

HOATZIN SKILL 6 STAMINA 6

If you win, you can taste some green-spottéd toad-
stools (turn to 245) or some red-spotted ones (tum to
330), if you wish. Or you can push on (turn to 69)

137
‘You wait here now,’ says Otus, jabbing a finger as
thick as Ewo ordinary fingers into your chest. ‘] return
with the princess in two days.’ Will you do as he says
(turn to 394) or not (turn to 306)?

138

It has been ages since the stairway experienced any-
thing like your weight, and it begins to collapse. The
steps, massive blocks of limestone, are wobbling
under your feet as if you were in an earthquake.
They're going ... you're starting to fall. Will you
jump for the next step up (turn to 358) or down (turn
to 293)?

139-141

139

On closer inspection the jumble of rocks turns out to
have some kind of order to it. In fact, the stones form
a dolmen, a rough-and-ready tomb from ancient times.
This would make an ideal place to spend the night, but
first you have to clear out the Ghoul which has made
this place its home ever since it sucked out the spirit
of the dolmen’s long-dead inhabitant

GHOUL SKILL 8 STAMINA 7

rm
jn

ath

Vien

ss

If, before the fight is over, you lose four Attack
Rounds, turn to 53. If you win, you settle down for
the night but find that your lamp was broken during
the fight. Cross it off your Adventure Sheet and turn to
106.

140
You can deflect the green flame with a shield, but you
will need to roll less than your current sKILL score
with two dice three times. If you are successful all
three times, turn to 13; if you fail any roll, turn to 299.

141
This time you are extra careful about tying the needle
on to the thread in such a way that the needle is
swinging free and horizontally. You rest the needle on
the lodestone, where it sticks, and wait a few minutes
for the magic to transfer from the stone to the metal
needle. You now have a crude compass. You don’t
know where you are, but you believe that you entered
the marsh from the east and south. It makes sense,
then, to think that the further side of it may be

ALLY Zo
eee,
LELSLS

-
S34

1427145

reached by going westwards (turn to 34) or northwards
(turn to 361).

142
The papers you snatched up are worthless, but you
find a door and stumble through into the next room.
Turn to 329.

143
This seems a paltry sum to Ophis — not enough to
tum him against Oman, but enough to tur him
against you! Turn to 7o.

144
There is no shelter out here on the bleak moorland, so
you can either push on through the night in an
easterly (tum to 246) or westerly (turn to 4) direction,
since there is a ravine a short way to the north, or you
can return and investigate the hilltop (tum to 139).

145
Riding on the crest of your current popularity in the
tavern, you grab a handful of the landlord's jerkin, pull
him halfway across the top of the bar and tell him in
no uncertain terms what you think of his suggestion.
You then leave the tavern; turn to 384.

146-147

146

Three angry cavemen suddenly appear from among
the rocks. The terrain allows two of them to attack
you with their clubs at once. Choose which two are
involved in any Attack Round, then choose one of
these to Aight. You win or lose as normal against
this one, while the other may wound you (if his
Attack Strength is higher) but you cannot wound
him.

SKILL STAMINA
First CAVEMAN 6 8
Second CAVEMAN yj 7
Third CAVEMAN 7 6

If you defeat all three cavemen, you leave the gulley
as quickly as possible, fearing another ambush. The
gulley has taken you down below the lip of the main
cliff, You scramble back up to the top and find an
impassable region of sharp, broken rocks and deep
fissures to the west. The only direction open to you
now is north. Turn to 382.

147
Separated, the Ogre head lies on the ground, blood
oozing from its neck. You watch the Cradoc care-
fully, but is seems you have made the correct choice
Slowly you back away from the monstrous corpse,
keeping your eyes fixed on it, until you are a safe
enough distance away to turn and mun from the
horror. Eventually you allow yourself to slow to a
walk, but you no longer know where you are, Turn to

69

148-150

148
You fumble around and cut your fighting hand on a
piece of glass. Temporarily reduce your ski by 1
point until you have left Arion, Now leave the room
by turning to 319.

A female Marsh Orc pours scalding slops down on your
head and shoulders; lose 2 stamina points. You tumble
back to the ground. Return to 362 and finish the fight.

150
There are various articles you can buy from the stalls
in the market and each costs 2 Gold Pieces. Choose as
many as you like, but you would be advised not to
spend all you have. Remember to deduct the appropri-
ate amount of money from your Adventure Sheet as
you accumulate items.

151-152

a large phial of sallow-seed oil
a needle and some thread

2 meals’ worth of Provisions
a tinderbox and flint

a pair of old boots

an antique gilded arrow

a lodestone

two silver pearls

some rope

a throwing-knife

a fishing-net

a copper pendant

Once you have finished shopping, you can leave
Arion to begin your quest (turn to 200) or you can
make your way down to the docks (turn to 171).

151
You are struck by a fireball. Deduct 4 sTAMINA points
then turn to 215.

152
It is not so much a question of whether you will
succeed in this climb, but rather of how far up you will
get before you fall. Test your Luck If you are Lucky,
turn to 182; if you are Unlucky, turn to 44

=r ete

‘s

eye
‘ mi, Soe
»

155-156

153

The tunnel curves until it becomes clear that this is no
more than a short crescent-shaped diversion from the
main tunnel and that the two passages will soon join
up again. The distinctive clicking sound of the tough
plating of a Giant Millipede lets you know whose
tunnel if is, however. Giant Millipedes are fiercely
territorial beasts and resent any intrusion into their
homes — except by edible creatures

GIANT MILLIPEDE SKILL 9 STAMINA 12

You can escape at any time (for the loss of 2 STAMINA
points, as the Millipede nips your exposed back) by
retreating and rejoining the main tunnel, but the Milli-
pede will follow you. If you choose to escape, turn to
54. If you defeat the Millipede first and then advance
to rejoin the main tunnel, bum to 275

154
Struggling through the bewildering swamp, you find
yourself in the middle of a patch of Tendril Grass. The
clinging weeds trip you up and you fall, face down,
into the bog. If you have been here before, turn to
226. If not, turn to 214.

155
The handle of the front door tums easily, and the
door opens noiselessly on well-oiled hinges. Turn to

156
You may now either search the farmhouse, if you

157-158

haven't already done so (turn to 391), or carry on past
it and head south (turn to 355).

157

You land safely in the cold, oily water. It is so deep
that your feet don’t touch the bottom when you jump
in. However, there are two problems. First, the water
is cursed: if you drank water from a well earlier in
your adventure (you will have WELL written on your
Adventure Sheet), the poison it contained is now trig-
gered and you must lose 6 STAMINA points. If you are
still alive, you face the second problem: it is going to
be very difficult to get out of here! The floor of the
entrance hall is high above you and you can hear the
sounds and then see the heads of Wraiths waiting for
you up there. You swim around for a while but can
find no obvious solution to your problem, except that
there are enough fingerholds in the stonework for you
to stand a chance of climbing up to the ground floor.
Some of the Wraiths are now beginning to tumble
into the water in their eagerness to reach you, but
they can’t swim and their bodies immediately decay
on hitting the water. The stench is awful. Will you
climb the wall in front of you (turn to 108), behind
you (turn to 167), to your left (turn to 51) or to your
right (turn to 274)?

158
Your hands grasp the window-ledge ~ and are lacer-
ated by tiny slivers of glass which the Baron thought-
fully cemented there, You crash heavily to the ground;
lose 2 STAMINA points, You can now make your way

159-161

south towards the Baron’s garden, to try to find a way
into the house there (tum to 366), or you can head
north towards the front door of the house (turn to

114).

159
The shadows are lengthening as you trudge up a ridge
and look down on to another valley below. Will you
camp until morning {turn to 277) or press on through
the night (turn to 246)?

160
An hour or more passes, Then a message comes from
the elders’ hut for you to be brought before them. The
guards untie you, Your hands are numb from the tight
ropes, so you decide not to try to fight your way free
just yet, Turn to 352,

161

‘Wrong again, Fang-zen,’ you reply. ‘It’s just that |
nearly died laughing at some tales of your attempts at
wizardry. When that shape-change spell backfired and
turned you into a Goblin ... When are you going to
get changed back again? I'd stick to thuggery if I were
you, and leave the intellectual stuff to others!’ His face
darkens with rage and he starts to rise from his seat.
‘Sit down, sit down,’ you laugh. ‘Can't you take a
joke?’ He settles back down, but there is a dangerous
gleam in his eye. ‘Now, you continue, ‘how about a
game of pinfinger?’ Test your Luck. If you are Lucky,
turn to 1432. [f you are Unlucky, Fang-zen refuses to
play, and you get up to leave; turn to 87,

SSS Ne

162-164

162
Glantanka hears you. Her glorious rays burn away the
mist and now you can see that you were not far from
the edge of the marsh; you quickly make your way to
dry ground. The ways of the gods are unclear to
mortals, and you are desperate to get out of the marsh
before Glantanka changes her mind. Tum to 281.

163
You have scarcely started up the rock-face when a
caveman appears out of one of the depressions above
you and smashes a staff down on your knuckles. You
fall directly into the path of the oncoming boulder.
Your adventure ends here.

164
You decide to drip a few drops of the oil on to the
hatch’s rusty hinges, to prevent any unwelcome noises.
Then you put the rest of the oil in its phial back in
your pack, before opening the hatch and slipping
through. Turn to 237.

165-166

165

You penetrate a little way into the forest — far enough
to be safely away from the open ground, but not too
far, because in the twilight the deepest parts of the
forest are frightening. And you are right to be fright-
ened; had you gone any further, you would never
have got out alive, for this forest hates intruders, You
will get out eventually, but not before you have
sustained 2 points of damage to your sTAMINA as a
result of being lashed by branches and brambles,
tripped by roots and squeezed between tree-trunks. It
is too late now to make for the village, so you will
have to camp out in the open. Turn to 278

166
You mow down five or six of the advancing Flintskins
before succumbing to a hail of blows. Your adventure
is OVer.

Re se el

167-169

167
When you have scrambled some way up the wall, the
bit of it you are clinging to collapses — but inwards,
not back towards the water, You land in a chute and
slide, out of control, down and down. Then the chute
ends ... in thin air! You are sure that the moment of
death has arrived for you. Turn to 71.

168

Separated, the Dragon head lies on the ground, blood
oozing from its neck. The Cradoc lies still, but you
watch it intently, searching for the tiniest flicker of life.
You watch it so intently, in fact, that you don’t notice
the Dragon head slithering across the grass towards
you until it has fixed its jaws round your leg. In
horror, you hack away at it, but it is too late. You
collapse on to the ground, never to rise again.

169
The closer you get to the cloud, the more you can see
that it has no obvious cause; it is not the outpouring
from a smith’s gigantic forge, for instance. It just
seems to billow up from the earth, then drop back
down on to the river and the ground. The whole place
is barren and grey; leafless trees form stark silhouettes
But you have the distinct feeling that there is conscious-
ness and intelligence behind this miasma, because the
green flames have died down in exact proportion to
your approach, as if they were waiting to see how
close you would dare to come And then, with a roar,
the miasma attacks by shooting flame towards you. If
you have a shield, turn to 140. If you want to escape,

170-171

turn to 104. If you try to resist the miasma, turn to
299.

170
You remember what a wizard once taught you: if you
charge the needle with the magic of the lodestone and
let it hang, parallel to the ground, from a piece of
thread, the needle will point roughly north ‘Not
exactly, mind you,’ the gruff old wizard had said, ‘just
roughly.’ He hadn’t been able to explain why this
worked but just put it down to earth magic, You
hastily get the equipment together, then you sit down
and rest the needle on your thigh while trying to tie
the thread on to the middle of the needle. Roll two
dice. If the total is less than, or equal to, your current
SKILL score, turn to 89; otherwise, turn to 134.

171
The dockland area is a great place for gathering
information. Boats put in here from all over Khul, and
even from other continents. As an experienced sailor
yourself, you have no difficulty in being accepted by a
group of gnarled fishermen who are mending nets on
one of the quays. You pass the time of day together
discussing the weather before you turn to matters of
wider interest. But the group is beginning to disperse:
the tide is right for sailing. You can ask them if they
know anything about Princess Telessa’s kidnap (turn
to 122), where you can find some more scarlet pearls
(turn to 364), whether Fang-zen has left Arion yet
(turn to 35), or what they know about the gold-mining
business {turn to 343).

172-173

172
A short way along the tunnel you stumble across the
fresh corpse of an Orc, no doubt the victim of some
feud among Arachnos’ troops. He has nothing worth
taking, except a helmet engraved with Arachnos’ ‘A’
symbol, You can put it on if you like, then turn to
210,

173
In the back of the skiff the vague outline of a man
appears. His sightless eyes gleam red as he says, ‘What
is your wish? Shall } take you to my master, or away
from here?’ Do you let him take you to his master,
whoever that may be (turn to 247), or away from here
(tum to 367)? Alternatively, you may not feel comfort-
able with this situation and decide to swim back to the
tussock and return the way you came (turn to 29).

00 EE eGVw“woererere
174-176

174
You are flicking through bills and lists of freight the
Baron has imported or exported so far this month,
when the comer of a page ignites on the flame from
your tinderbox. The flimsy pieces of paper and their
dry, wooden boxes catch fire so quickly that is is
almost like an explosion Within seconds a fire is
raging, out of control. You have time to grab one
handful of paper and run out of the room: your hair is
already starting to singe. Roll one dice. If you roll 6,
turn to 264; otherwise, turn to 192.

175
If you have a shield, turn to 26; otherwise, turn to 113

176
Before you have gone far, an Orc, busily looking over
his shoulder, almost bumps into you. However, he
recovers quickly and pulls out a  vicious-looking
sword

ORC

A rapid search of the body delivers 2 Gold Pieces into
your hands, You carry on down the tunnel, but with
increasing caution, as you soon begin to hear what
sounds like a huge army massing. You round a corner
and duck down behind a boulder in reaction to an
astonishing sight. A huge cavern, whose roof is too far
above you to be seen in the smoky distance, is filled
with countless campfires, tents and ali the baggage of
an army. Thousands of Orcs, Goblins, Blackhearts,
Dark Elves, Trolls and Ogres are milling around. Cruel

SKILL 7 STAMINA @

177-180

officers lash their men to force them to work. From at
least two places the screams of tortured men and
animals arise, It is a vision of hell. There is certainly no
way through here, and you must return the way you
came, Tur to 131

177
The wall surrounding the Baron’s house offers an
unbroken barrier. There are no side doors. You can
either return to the main gate, if you haven’t already
failed to get in that way (tum to 125), or you can try
to climb the wall (turn to se).

178
Do you have the A-medallion? If you do, turn to 262;
otherwise, turn to 39.

179

In a single fluid movement, you turn and bring the
blade of your sword scything down on to the unidenti-
fied shape, then you flee from the cottage before
whatever it is can strike back. You run without looking
back, terror in your heart, and camp for the night out
in the open, with a good fire to keep your fear and
any beasts at bay. Turn to 278.

180
This causes considerable consternation. The elders
murmur and talk among themselves for a long time. If
you were brought here after trying to escape, tum to
46; if you stayed tied to the post, turn to 322.

a §«— Silgenee ges sss
181-185

181
The man is still alive when you reach him. ‘It’s you,’
he gasps. ‘King Jonthane sent me... new information
find ... north of here .. .’ He breathes his last. You
leave his body for the crows: it is as clean a way to
dispose of it as any other. You head north with your
incomplete new information; turn to 289

182
When you dao fall, by some miracle you land directly
on top of your invisible opponent. This gives you
time to get to your feet and fight him. Tum to 339,
but you may reduce his stamina by 1 point.

183
You walk halfway along the dank, gloomy passage. At
the other end of it, in the garden, something large is
stirring in the shrubbery. You decide to return to the
front of the house, Test your Luck, If you are Lucky,
turn to 340; if you are Unlucky, turn to 107

184

Farigiss, the god of ice and cold, is puzzled by your
appeal, but mortals so rarely call on him, except to
curse him, that he is delighted to respond. He freezes
the mist into a solid block of ice and you freeze to
death inside it, Maybe in a few hundred or thousand
years’ time, you wil] be discovered, stil] preserved in
the ice.

185
Test your Luck. If you are Lucky, you make it to the

186—187

top of the wall unharmed. If you are Unlucky, you fall
awkwardly and twist your ankle (deduct 1 STAMINA
point), then start again and complete your climb. There
is a dank, narrow path between the wall and the
house. You can jump for an upper window-ledge of
the house (turn to 158), or you can let yourself down
into the passage, where you may go southwards
towards the Baron’s garden, to try to find a way into
the house from there (turn to 366), or you can head
north towards the front door of the house (turn to

414).

186
The slimy creature, which you now see is a Marsh
Ore, tries to slip out from under you but fails, You
have its head in a secure grip and you squeeze until
the creature becomes unconscious. Test your Luck. If
you are Lucky, turn to 265; if you are Unlucky, turn
to 92

187
Although it all happens too fast for your conscious
mind, you somehow register the fact that the dark
shape is Fang-zen and that he has hurled a spear at
you. You fall to the ground; the spear ricochets off a
rock — straight into your thigh. Deduct 2 points from
your STAMINA, Then Fang-zen himself is upon you,
seeking revenge for the theft of his quest. He is a
hardy adventurer too, and his skiLt is only 2 less than
yours, while his sTAMINA is 12. Only luck will see
you through this fight unscathed. If you win, turn to

30,

188-189

188
You leap down from the rotting hull on to the spongy
ground. You take out your compass and check your
bearings, The contours of the lake’s shoreline offer
you the choices only of going east (tum to 207) or
north (turn to 346),

189

A skein of geese in V-formation wings its way over-
head as you tum into the bar — maybe this is a good
omen. You sit on a high stool at the bar and try to
engage the landlord in conversation, but he is too
busy to do more than grunt. Mind you, your neighbour
tells you that that’s the most intelligent comment he’s
heard from the landlord in years. You swivel around
on your stool to survey the scene. At that moment a
vile-looking old crone walks into the bar, clutching
some withered sprigs of heather. She is clearly a well-
known figure, because she hardly has time to utter,
‘Buy my lucky heather,’ before the landlord has hustled
her out through the doar, prodding her with the brush
end of a broom. Will you follow the horrid crone out
into the street (turn to 10) or investigate the gambling
wheel at the back of the tavern {turn to 28)?

190-192

190
You hammer on the door with the hilt of your sword,
and eventually a surly young man answers it. He is
prepared to put you up for a price: 1 Gold Piece and 4
meals’ worth of Provisions, since the land here is
rocky and unfruitful, Will you pay his price (turn to
313) or leave and go back to the bumed-out cottage
next door (turn to 224); or will you camp out in the
open somewhere (turn to 278)?

191
You succeed in breaking out of their grip, You quickly
knock one guard unconscious with a blow of your fist,
then draw your sword to face the other, who is
swinging a hatchet.

FLINTSKIN GUARD SKILL 7

If the fight is still in progress after four Attack Rounds
have been completed, more Flintskins are beginning to
emerge from their huts (turn to 166). If you win before
four rounds are over, turn to 238.

STAMINA 8

192
Before long the whole house wil! be ablaze. You can
remain in the Baron’s house for a maximum of seven
further paragraphs. If by then you are not out in the
courtyard, you will be roasted alive. Keep track on a
piece of paper of how long you are taking to get out.
The next location you turn to will be the first of the
seven. The door back to the previous room is blocked
by the fire. Will you examine the room you are in (tum
to 148) or leave by the only available door (turn to 319)?

193-194

193

You quickly spot a trail of blood leading to a small
hollow. One Troll-Orc is lying on the ground, dead or
dying, and another is peering intently down on the
wounded stranger. You begin to feel that the crows
were meant to attract you here, to spring the trap. If
you have a throwing-knife, turn to 363; otherwise,
you creep up behind the Troil-Ore (turn to 336).

194

If your current STAMINA score is less than 12, in the
time you spend trying to break through the wal! you
succurnb to the smoke and flames, and your adventure
is over. If your sTAMINA score is currently 12 or over,
you manage to break down the wall and escape
through the village, which is now in a state of chaos.
When you find time to investigate your trophy, you
will see that it is a small branch of an ancient ebony
tree, about thirty centimetres long, with a silver hexa-
gram protruding slightly from one end. The branch
also has the number 158 inscribed on it (make a note
of this). It was evidently an important village totem.
Now turn to 302.

195-198

195

A short while later, a terrifying roar greets you from
out of the mist ahead Aeons ago, when this marsh
was a lake, a terrible curse fell upon one stretch of
shoreline and it became inhabited by Flesh-Eaters
These enormous serpentine monsters can slither over
land or glide through water with astonishing speed.
Only one now remains in Khul; it is old, as old as the
hills, but its appetite is still strong and it makes a
tormidable opponent

FLESH-EATER SKILL 10 STAMINA 16

lf you win, you can turn to either 311 or 154

196
You waste no time in getting out of town. Turn to 69,

197

You are in the entrance-hall of the Baron's mansion, A
wide staircase leads to the upper floors and there are
doors off the hall to rooms on the ground floor.
However, Baron den Snau himself has been alerted to
your presence, and he is standing a little way up the
staircase, looking down at you. ‘What do you want,
stranger?’ he dernands.

You reply curtly, ‘Information.’ Will you simultane-
ously rush at him up the stairs (turn to 395) or stand
your ground (turn to 225)?

198
You pick a hut near the edge of the village and creep
up to the doorway, which is covered by a piece of

199

embroidered cloth, You cannot hear a sound from
inside. Will you whisk the cloth aside and enter (turn
to 250) or leave the village (turn to 302)?

199
There is no going back, so whatever the source of the
fireball may have been, you are going to have to face
it’ You continue creeping down the tunnel on your
belly. All of a sudden the tunnel ends at a small,
underground cave. On the floor of the cavern lies a
pool of bubbling lava which occasionally emits fireballs
at random intervals and in random directions. There
are narrow ledges round both the left- and the right-
hand walls of the cavern. You can take either one, but
you will have to reach the tunnel opening on the
other side of the cavern before you are overcome by
the heat and the fumes. Roll one dice three times and
make a note of the sequence of numbers you roll, as
well as the total. If the total is between 3 and 9, tum
to 22; if it is between 10 and 18, tur to 252.

200-201

200

Three days later, you are still walking towards the
west. There has been no sign of the kidnappers,
though occasionally you have felt yourself being
watched. If you have King Jonthane’s letter, the royal
seal will show you where to go in order to meet the
kidnappers. If you have come here without the letter,
you have failed. Your action will cause the death of
the beautiful and innocent princess, as King Jonthane
warned you at the very start.

201

Few battles have come tougher than that. You feel
elated at defeating the loathsome Pool Crawler; regain
i LUCK point. You leap across the pool, using the
belly-up corpse as a stepping-stone. The tunnel contin-
ues beyond the pool and ends at another door like the
one through which you entered this tunnel. There is
an identical lever in the wall. You check the ceiling,
walls and floor but can see no obvious traps. Will you
push the lever up (turn to 335) or pull it down {tum to
305)?

Oo  —
202-203

202
The porter greedily stuffs the money into his pouch
and lets you in. (Deduct 4 Gold Pieces from your
Adventure Sheet.) Then he disappears back inside the
gatehouse. While the porter isn’t looking, you can
sneak along a pathway that skirts the west side of the
house, if you like (turn to 183), or you can boldly go
up to the front door of the mansion (turn to 155)

203
In the dark, you fall and pull a tendon in your thigh
Deduct 1 sxILt point and hobble on to 276.

204-205

204

Nothing stirs as you enter the cottage, You glance
quickly around then step across what remains of the
single room to look out of the hole in the back wall
which served as a window. A charred piece of sackcloth
curtain flutters in the breeze. You shiver, although it is
not cold: something evil has taken place here. Sud-
denly, out of the corner of your eye, you glimpse a
faint movement from a rounded shape, tucked away in
the corner of the room. In mounting fear, will you
whirl and strike at the shape before it has a chance to
do anything more (turn to 179) or merely draw your
sword in preparation for whatever it may tum out to
be (tum to 62)?

205
Cross the stone off your Adventure Sheet. The Orc
rambles on for ages, but you learn little that could
be called useful, except for a recipe for cooking red-
spotted toadstools. You can continue on your way by
turning to either 55, 154 or 365.

206-207

206
The pitchfork misses your ear by a hair’s breadth and
thuds, quivering, into a tree-trunk. Then the gardener
is upon you, wielding a razor-sharp scythe.

GARDENER SKILL 8 STAMINA 7

If you roll a double for your Attack Strength in any
round, you have luckily cut through the wooden
handle of the scythe, and you finish the Dark EIF off
with ease. If the fight lasts longer than four rounds,
turn to 29. If you win sooner than that, turn to 366.

207

You trudge on with a feeling of fear and hopelessness
Some marshes in Khul are home to rare creatures ...
and this one certainly is. Semerles are creatures frozen
in time, relics from millions of years ago, Half-fish,
half-reptiles, they are amphibious and store their meat
underwater until it rots. A full-grown male Semerle —
like the one facing you — can be two metres long and
weigh up to a hundred kilos. Its squat body is solid
muscle, and a flick of its tail can kill many creatures, if
they survive its claws and the tusks protruding from
its upper and lower jaws.

SEMERLE SKILL 6 STAMINA 14

Every time you win an Attack Round, you must roll one
dice to see if you manage to avoid its lashing tail. On a
roll of 5—6, the tail strikes you and causes you 2
STAMINA points of injury. Of course, you don’t have to
make this roll after the Attack Round in which you kill
the beast — if you get that far! If you survive, turn to 24

208-211

208
A short way down the tunnel you come across the
sticky strands of a Giant Spider’s web. Worse, you
come across the spider itself! Its ability to see in the
dark makes it more than a match for most people in
tunnels like this

GIANT SPIDER SKILL 7 STAMINA 8

If you win, you slash through its web — and hear an
ominous rumbling. You just have time to sprint for-
ward to avoid a cave-in. There is no turning back now:
the tunnel-mouth is blocked. Cross the rope off your
Adventure Sheet, then turn to 18.

209
The odds are too great, even for a great warrior like
yourself, You fall to the ground, blood oozing from
scores of wounds. Your adventure is over

210
Faint rumblings are issuing from the mouth of the next
side tunnel to appear. Will you enter this tunnel (tum
to 111) or continue descending (turn to 234)?

211
The Bushel is a rather up-market establishment, where
the bar-girls wear uniforms and the seats are covered
in mock Lizardine leather. Entry is 2 Gold Pieces, but
thereafter the food and drinks appear to be free. You
can pay and go in (turn to 233), go to the bar across
the road instead (turn to 18g), or call it a day (turn to
388)

212—213

212
This laziness is one of the magical effects the mist
exerts upon you: you sink deeper and deeper into
depression, as if the bog itself were sucking you down,
But resolve still flickers in some corner of your mind,
though it wil] take great mental strength to summon it
up. Roll three dice. If the total is less than, or equal to,
your current 5TAMINA score, tum to 236; if it is
greater, turn to 288.

213
Desperation lends you an actor's skills Even to you,
your imitation of the rough tones of a Desert Cat are
almost convincing. At any rate, the Ogre turns around
and stomps off, cursing Tiddles under his breath. You
make your way to the front of the house. Nothing
stirs in the gatehouse on the far side of the wide
courtyard as you turn the handle of the front door and
it opens noiselessly on well-oiled hinges. Turn to 197.

Oe

214-216

214
You come across the half-sunken, half-rotien shell of
an ancient willow tree. Will you climb inside the
hollow trunk (turn to 393} or not (turn to 99)?

215
If, with your third dice, you rolled 1-4, tum to 15. If
you rolled 5—6, turn to 324.

You make slow progress because you are spending
time backtracking, looking for blades of crushed grass,
overtumed pebbles; broken twigs — anything that
might show which way Otus went. By mid-noming
you have progressed only a kilometre or two, and you
stop to rest in the shade of a stand of oaks. You
decide your best bet will be to enter dread Deathmoor
and explore, since that is obviously where Otus was

making for.

By noon of the following day you have reached the
edge of Deathmoor. You are now confronted by a
fast-flowing river whose surface is covered in scum
and putrid fish. You need to find a Way across the
river: you can follow it upstream to the north (tum to
68) or downstream to the south (hin to 220)

217-219

217
Trapped between these two huge brutes, you stand no
chance at all. Your adventure is over,

218
The papers you grabbed are worthless. You leave the
blazing room by turning to 192.

219

This a ghost town — literally! A crowd of Wraiths is
coming down the street towards you, jostling one
another for the first place and the chance of fresh
meat. You decide that it will be wise to leave here
You can either go back inside the imposing building
you have just left, and jump into the flooded basement,
which is the only possible hiding-place (turn to 157),
or you can sprint down a side street and out of town
(turn to 69)

en
220-221

220

As you progress downstream, the river gets more and
more sluggish, until you are almost keeping pace with
the white underbellies of the dead fish in the river.
You are walking along a narrow towpath with, on
your left, tall gorse bushes that are armed with vicious
thoms and, on your right, the oily river. And there,
straight ahead of you, are two Blackhearts, These
mutations — a cross between Dark Elves and Orcs —
occasionally appear in northern Khul. The two facing
you are on patrol and they have no hesitation in
rushing forward to deal with you, swinging their
jagged scimitars. Luckily for you, the path is so narrow
that they can only get at you one at a time.

SKILL STAMINA
First BLACKHEART 7 10
Second BLACKHEART 6 8

Every time you lose an Attack Round, roll one extra
dice. If you roll a 1, turn to 45; if you roll a 6, turn to
259; otherwise, continue with the fight. If you win,
turn to 274.

221
You will have to leap from one tussock to the next, so
you carefully stow your precious compass away in
your pouch first. In order to negotiate six tussocks,
roll one dice six times. If the number rolled is ever the
same as the number of the tussock you are jumping
for (that is, if you roll 1 for the first jump, 2 for the
second jump, and so on), you miss the tussock and fall

222-224

into the water; tur to 387. If you reach the sixth
tussock unscathed, tum to 318.

222
You turn into Creel-makers’ Alley and see two more
taverns further along, on opposite sides of the street.
If you do not have the royal letter which the king and
queen gave Fang-zen, you now feel that your task is
hopeless and that you ought to start again, or perhaps
go in search of another adventure. Otherwise, you
may as well carry on drinking, now that you've
started! Will you go to “The Bushel’ on the right
(turn to 212) or Elfbane Bar’ on the left (turn to
189?

223
You will have to fight the Troll-Orc.
TROLL-ORC SKILL 7 STAMINA 8
If you win, turn to 29,

224

As you approach the ruined cottage, you can smell
that it has been burned down only recently. In fact,
when your hand touches the doorpost, it is still slightly
warm; inside, you can see smoke trickling from what
were once roof-beams. But much worse is the fact that
you also touched something sticky on the doorpost;
even in the dim evening light you can see that it is
blood. Will you cross the threshold of this cottage
(turn to 204) or beat a hasty retreat to the other place
that caught your eye (turn to 190)?

225-229

225
Like all bullies, the Baron is essentially a coward,
caught up in a make-believe world in which he is
brave. Since he believes his self-made myth, however,
he advances down the stairs to fight you. Turn to 72.

226
By now the monster under the water has been
thoroughly aroused by all your coming and going, It
ends your adventure with one chomp of its massive
Jaws.

227
There is still nothing in this room, even though you
snatch one of the torches from the torture-chamber in
order to have a good look. The voice is an Illusion
Spell, triggered by opening the door between the two
rooms, Return to 319.

228

A hatch in the ceiling slides open and an Iron-eater
drops on to your head. This jelly-like creature con-
sumes anything made of iron in a matter of seconds, If
you were wearing a helmet, you aren't any more! [f
you have a spare helmet, though, you may put it on.
You shrug the creature to the floor, where you finish
it off with a couple of slicing strokes from your sword.
You now push the lever all the way up; tum to 326

229
As you cautiously lift one half of the double-doored
hatch, the rusty hinges let out an awful creak, You

en

230-231

wait a few moments, then a lamp flares in a downstairs
window, bathing some of the garden in light. Will you
run down the side passage (turn to 114) or stay where
you are (turn to 315)?

230
You bend down as far as you can, you writhe, grimace
and grunt as if in agony; in any language, this signifies
severe pain. The guards approach to see what is up.
You knee one of them on the chin and he collapses,
unconscious, while you whip out your sword to fight
the other.

FLINTSKIN GUARD SKILL 7 STAMINA &

If the fight is still in progress after four Attack Rounds
have been completed, more Flintskins are beginning to
emerge from their huts (turn to 166). If you win before
four rounds are over, turn to 238.

231
It all starts to make sense now: Arachnos the Life-
Stealer is up to his evil again. Centuries ago, in the
far north-eastern promontory of Khul there stood
a fair and prosperous trading city called Faleha;
Arachnos gradually made himself master of all its
revenue. Monetary gain was not his purpose, though
he certainly needed to pay the increasing numbers of
his servants, soldiers and minions. He is a creature of
Chaos: he must sow Chaos and Evil wherever he goes
and, unlike the usual thugs you come across in your
adventures, he is intelligent enough to pursue more
subtle plans for spreading Evil. In that, not wealth, lies

232

his pleasure. Now it looks as though he has set his
sights on Arion. He wants to manipulate the trade in
gold until he controls enough of Arion to bring King
Jonthane to his knees. No doubt his plans will not
stop with controlling northern Khul; he intends to set
up an Empire of Evil. Your thoughts are interrupted
because Otus is still speaking to you. Turn to 137.

232

You snatch the cylinder and jump back quickly in case
anything happens. Nothing does, except that you
broke off one of the skeleton’s fingers when you took
the cylinder. One end of the cylinder has a sun
engraved on it, together with the number 55 (note this
down). You stow the cylinder safely in your pouch,
Will you now try on the crown (turn to 307) or leave
the ship (turn to 188)?
233-234

233
Deduct 2 Gold Pieces from your Adventure Sheet, but
restore up to 4 lost STAMINA points because of the
food you eat in the Bushel. After eating, you take time
to look around at the rest of the clientele. Raised
voices attract your attention to a group at one of the
tables. Guarded by a couple of henchmen who are at
; least half Troll, a couple of swarthy, well-to-do

Pes Px oy iat iy. & ¢ . : criminals have been treating their girlfriends to a
<a ne ita % SR Rs night out, but it looks as though officers from the
if ie ott i City Guard have tracked them down and are

questioning them

“You accuse me of arranging murder?’ you hear one of
the men shout. ‘We are just honest plumbers — eh,
Igiul?’

‘Right, Ojiram,’ the other man agrees. ‘We've been
here all evening. There are plenty of witnesses — just
look around,’ Will you stay here, to be questioned by
the guards (turn to 283), or leave, knowing that as
you've only just arrived in the bar you cannot help
them. If you leave, you can either pop in to the bar
across the road (tum to 189) or call it a day (turn to
388).

i

;

‘
>

234
You can see the floor looming up below you, but
there are more side tunnels still to come. You are
beginning to enjoy the sensation of floating; will you
take the next side tunnel (turn to 356) or carry on
down (turn to 9)?

26

ih/

>
—

=

ice

. **
0, % e>=
s am
A NARS

255-237

235
You are deeply asleep, but you suddenly wake up
with a start, What was that? You can hear a snuffling
sound to your left, and you leap up to confront a lone
timber wolf which has been feasting on the Provisions
from your backpack. Her eyes glint red in the firelight
and her defence is savage, because back in her den her
hungry cubs are anxiously awaiting her return.

TIMBER WOLF . SKILL 6 STAMINA 8

If you win, you find that she has eaten half your
remaining Provisions {round odd numbers down), You
doze fitfully for the rest of the night, and in the
morning you try to pick up Otus’ trail. Turn to 216.

236
You force yourself to get up and carry on, reminding
yourself of the old proverb that ‘Where there’s life,
there’s hope.’ Your mind sparks into action again. If
you have a lodestone and a needle and some thread,
turn to 170; otherwise, turn to 290

237

You drop lightly to the ground and find yourself, as
expected, in a cellar. The floor is dusty and it doesn’t
look as though the room has been used for years
There are crates here and there, in no particular order,
and half a bed, and a drawer from some long-forgotten
chest. Will you search the room (turn to 3) or nof? If
you decide not to, there is only a single exit: a
wooden door to the east (turn to 80),

238-240

238
You pause, hardly daring to believe that no one heard
the fight, swift though it was, but nothing stirs. Will
you now leave the village as quickly as possible (tum
to 302) or prowl around (tum to 31)?

239
The pitchfork pins you to a tree by your sleeve — and
by a chunk of flesh in your arm (lose 2 STAMINA
points), so you are helpless. You grit your teeth and
reach round to pull the pitchfork free with your other
hand, Roll three dice. Jf the total is greater than your
current STAMINA score, ‘the Dark Elf reaches you
before you have freed yourself, and the last thing you
see is his scythe glinting in the dim light as it sweeps
towards your throat. If the total is less than, or equal
to, your current STAMINA score, you manage to free
yourself in time to put up a fight.

GARDENER SKILL 8 STAMINA 7

If at any time you roll a double for your Attack
Strength, you have luckily cut through the wooden
handle of the scythe, and you finish the Dark EIf off
with ease. If the fight lasts longer than four rounds,
turn to 291. If you win sooner than that, turn to 366.

240
His mace strikes you a glancing blow on the head,
You manage to get to your feet, but you are groggy.
Reduce your Attack Strength by one point for the
duration of this fight only. Turn to 339

241-242

241
You draw your sword and insert its tip into the
fissure. This gulley is sacred to a tribe of primitive
Cave People who propitiate the subterranean powers
that caused the landslip with offerings of small animals.
They have been watching your progress along the
gulley and by poking your sword into the crack, you
have insulted their gods. Behind you, they trundle a
huge spherical boulder out of one of the caves and
send it rolling down the slope towards you. The

rumbling, crashing noise it makes as it gathers speed

alerts you to your danger and you whirl around. Will
you try to outrun the boulder (turn to 133), look for a
fissure wide enough or a caver deep enough to hide
in while the boulder thunders past (turn to 345), scale
one of the pock-marked rock-faces (turn to 163) or try
to leap over the oncoming boulder (turn to 249)?

242
Do you have any sallow-seed oil? If you have, turn to
164; otherwise, turn to 229.

243-246

245

After a while, one of the guards mutters something
to the other, then he gets up and goes off some-
where; by feigning severe stomach cramps, you trick
the other guard into coming over. You knee him
on the chin, at the same time chopping the side
of your hand down hard on to the back of his
neck. He crumples, unconscious, to the ground. Will
you now escape from the village (tum to 302) or
snatch up a flaming brand from the fire and toss
it on to the thatched roof of the elders’ hut (turn
fo 11)?

244
Do you have a Truthstone? If you do, and you wish to
use it, turn to 264; otherwise, turn to 303.

245
You are immediately gripped by agonizing stomach
cramps; lose 2 STAMINA points. You can now try
some blue-spotted toadstools {turn to 136) or some
red-spotted ones (turn to 330), if you wish, or you can
hurry on (turn to 6g).

246
You struggle on as best you can as deep night falls
and the mists come down, but to no avail. Half-seen,
half-recognized shapes loom, eerily glowing, out of
the darkness, while fine moisture soaks you to the
skin. The ghosts of Deathmoor lure you to your death
over a cliff.

247-248

247
The skiff glides effortlessly over the lake without
creating so much as a ripple on the water, until it
comes to rest with a gentle bump against the rotting
hull of an ancient longship. You climb out of the skiff
and into the ship: the skiff floats away again. The ship
has clearly been used for a royal burial: in the very
middle of the ship lies an ancient skeleton and tattered
rags of once-fine robes hang from its ribs, arms and
legs. A jewelled crown has rolled off its head and is
lying, a little way from it, on the deck. In one bony
claw it clutches a metal cylinder. The ship is lying
beached on the lake shore, so you can leave it without
difficulty. Will you clamber ashore (turn to 188), try
on the crown (tum to 307) or take the cylinder (tum
to 232)?

248
Ophis tums upon Oman in fury and, with cries of
‘Thief!’ begins to belabour him with his crossbow
Oman responds with his club. While they are thus
distracted, you will have to get rid of Otus.

OTUS SKILL STAMINA 12

if you win, you find that Oman and Ophis have
beaten, each other senseless, and you are able to
finish them off quickly, You turn back to the dying
Otus and demand to be told how to defeat Arach-
nos, If you have a Truthstone, tum to 298;
otherwise, you can only watch him die and then turn
to 284

249-252

249
Roll two dice. [f the number rolled is less than, or
equal to, your current SKILL score, you succeed in
clearing the boulder, which hurtles harmlessly on,
down the gulley, turn to 4146. Otherwise, you break
your leg, and your adventure ends beneath the clubs
of the cavemen,

250
The hut is deserted; perhaps it belongs to one of the
elders who is in counsel at present. A rapid search of
the hut reveals nothing. But by now the body of the
Flintskin you killed earlier has been discovered, and the
hunt is on for you. You have to sneak past six huts to
reach comparative safety away from the village and the
torch-bearing search-party. Roll one dice six times. If
the number rolled is ever the same as the number of the
hut you have reached, you've been discovered (turn to
41). If you make it safely out of the village, turn to 302.

251
You will have to fight the Orcish porter before you
can get out.

PORTER SKILL 6 STAMINA @

If you win, you find a bunch of keys in his gatehouse
and you waste no time in unlocking the gates and
escaping back into the city. Tum to 359.

252
If with your second dice you rolled 1-5, turn to 215; if
you rolled a 6, tum to 151

253-254

253
You are alone again in the marsh and still hopelessly
lost, At times of crisis all intelligent creatures turn
automatically to prayer: they send out a wordless
appeal to powers mightier than themselves, and you
are no exception. Jt seems that this is now your only
hope. Will you pray to Arachnos (turn to 178), Glan-
tanka (turn to 332) or Farigiss {turn to 184)?

254
It’s as well that you were careful, because in the
deepening dusk you can only just make out the shape
of the gardener, sitting with his back against a low
bank, Unfortunately for you, however, his mother was
a Dark Elf and so his hearing is exceptionally good. He
has been listening to your approach for some minutes
and hefting a pitchfork in anticipation. As soon as you
are within range, he hurls the pitchfork in what he
guesses to be your direction. Test your Luck. If you are
Lucky turn to 206; if you are Unlucky, turn to 239.

a EG gs a
255-256

255

The leading skeleton’s jaw creaks open and shut a few
times, It is trying to speak after years of silence. At
last the words appear, but it takes such an effort that
you find yourself mouthing them along with the
Skeleton, as if willing it to get them out. ‘What use
have we of these, stranger?’ the skeleton croaks. ‘You
are a fool, but you are not evil. You may go.’ The
skeletal horde stops pressing in on you and allows
you to proceed on your way. You may now search
the ruined farmhouse (turn to 391), continue north-
wards past it (turn to 263), or turn around and go
south (turn to 355). If you have a Truthstone, you
may wish to try its powers on the leader of the
skeletons before you leave (turn to 78).

256
You succeed in sawing through the ropes that bind
you, and the guards haven't noticed a thing! They are
sitting on the ground to your left and right, a short
distance in front of you. Will you try to sneak away
from them (turn to 300) or get them to approach you
(turn to 230), or will you wait (tum to 243)?

257-260

257
The Baron is surprised by your attack. He was expecting
you to spring a trap he has set into the second stair, but
you leapt over it, So he hasn’t even drawn his sword or
tried to escape. Your charge ends with you head-butting
him in the stomach, He doubles up in pain and jumps
down to the foot of the stairs. You leap down alter him,
again luckily avoiding the trap, while he draws his
sword, Turn to 72 to fight him, but first reduce his
STAMINA by 1 point, since you have winded him.

258
You are trapped. When Arachnos’ zoo-keeper comes
round next, he will find a prize exhibit. Your adventure
Is OVer,

259
Shocked and in pain, you stumble into the gorse
bushes. Deduct 1 extra staMINa point before returning
to 220 to continue the fight.

260
You kill the Troll-Orc outright and race down to the
wounded human. Turn to 2481.

261-264

261

You shove the papers into your pouch. You have no
time to examine them now, but in fact you have
picked up a useful note. You can return to this location
at any time to examine it: it appears to be the key to a
code. For now, turn to 192 if you have started a fire; if
you haven't, you leave and go into the next room by
turning to 319

262
Arachnos the Life-Stealer heeds your call. He sucks
your spirit from you, but not your moral awareness,
Your torture for the rest of your days will be to
commit horrid acts of evil as Arachnos’ slave while
still loathing yourself for doing so.

263

The slope going north beyond the farmhouse turns
out to be steeper than it looked from a distance, and it
is covered with loose stones and slate You keep
causing little avalanches on your way up and your
hands are soon covered in scratches. At one point you
slide several metres back down the slope and you are
forced to pause, gathering your strength Will you
give up your attempt and go back down the slope
(turn to 156) or will you carry on (turn to 287)?

264
You take out the Truthstone, and in its eerie light you
see the cruelty of years etched on to the Baron’s face as
clearly as if you were reading a map or a book. Cross
the Truthstone off your Adventure Sheet and turn to 303

es

265-266

265
You find 1 Gold Piece and a needle in the Orc’s
pockets. If you have recently lost a needle, turn to
141 Otherwise, you carry on through the marsh by
turning to 55, 154 or 365.

266
You reverse the Invisibility spell, just as the wise
woman taught you. You find a curious object, whose
purpose it is hard to guess at. It is about the size of a
large key but it looks like a branding-iron, since it ends
in a flat face. On the circular face is inscribed a
crescent moon and the number ‘112’, Whatever it is,
though, it feels important; restore 1 LucK point. You
store the object safely away in your backpack (add it
to your possessions on your Adventure Sheet). You
decide your best bet is to enter dread Deathmoor and
explore, since it is obviously where Otus was heading.

By noon of the following day you have reached the
edge of Deathmoor. You are faced with a fast-flowing
river to cross; its surface is covered in scum and
rotting fish. You need to find a way across the river:
you can follow it upstream to the north (hum to 68) or
downstream to the south (turn to 220),

267-268
267 :

You find a silver whistle with an inscription in ancient
Kabeshian, which you know well from your days at
the Academy. The inscription reads ‘Follow me’, and
you can also discern the number 333 (make a note of
this). You blow into it and enjoy its clear, high note,
but nothing else happens — except that you attract the
attention of the Pterolin’s mate. Like all the males of
the species, this one is bigger and stronger than the
female you have already met. Will you escape down
the f&imnel (tum to 208) or stand and fight (tum to
116)?

268

You lean over and whisper some extremely unpleasant
threats into the ear of a small, weasel-faced man at
Fang-zen’s table, and he suddenly remembers an
appointment elsewhere in town. Now that there’s a
stool available, you sit down. As soon as Fang-zen
spots you, he begins to taunt you. ‘Oh, it’s you,’ he
sneers. ‘Late as usual, The quest’s mine, punk, and
there’s nothing you can do about it, What happened
to make you late? Did you get doped by some
Sleeping Grass, or did the milksop child of a weakling
Sprite defeat you in a punch-up?’ Will you respond to
his taunts with insults of your own (tum to 161) or
get up and walk away (turn to 87)?

a =e ee ee

265-266

265
You find 1 Gold Piece and a needle in the Ore’s
pockets. If you have recently lost a needle, turn to
141. Otherwise, you carry on through the marsh by
turning to 55, 154 or 365.

266
You reverse the Invisibility spell, just as the wise
woman taught you. You find a curious object, whose
purpose it is hard to guess at, It is about the size of a
large key but it looks like a branding-iron, since it ends
in a flat face. On the circular face is inscribed a
crescent moon and the number ‘122’. Whatever it is,
though, it feels important, restore 1 LucK point. You
store the object safely away in your backpack (add it
to your possessions on your Adventure Sheet), You
decide your best bet is to enter dread Deathmoor and
explore, since it is obviously where Otus was heading.

By noon of the following day you have reached the
edge of Deathmoor, You are faced with a fast-flowing
river to cross; its surface is covered in scum and
rotting fish. You need to find a way across the river:
you can follow it upstream to the north (turn to 68) or
downstream to the south (turn to 220).

267-268

267

You find a silver whistle with an inscription in ancient
Kabeshian, which you know well from your days at
the Academy. The inscription reads ‘Follow me’, and
you can also discern the number 33% (make a note of
this). You blow into it and enjoy its clear, high note,
but nothing else happens — except that you attract the
attention of the Pterolin’s mate. Like all the males of
the species, this one is bigger and stronger than the
female you have already met. Will you escape down
the tunnel (tur to 208) or stand and fight (turn to
116)?

268

You lean over and whisper some extremely unpleasant
threats into the ear of a small, weasel-faced man at
Fang-zen’s table, and he suddenly remembers an
appointment elsewhere in town. Now that there’s a
stool available, you sit down. As soon as Fang-zen
spots you, he begins to taunt you ‘Oh, it’s you,’ he
sneers. ‘Late as usual. The quest’s mine, punk, and
there’s nothing you can do about it. What happened
to make you late? Did you get doped by some
Sleeping Grass, or did the milksop child of a weakling
Sprite defeat you in a punch-up?’ Will you respond to
his taunts with insults of your own (turn to 161) or
get up and walk away (turn to 87)?

Ss —— Se
269

269
There are four platforms with quite wide stretches of
river in between them, but each platform is large
enough for you to get a good run-up in order to jump
for the next one. However, since each platform will
sink into the foul water if you linger, you must simply
run and jump four times non-stop. This makes the
crossing progressively harder. Roll one dice four times
The first time, you are successful if you roll i—s, for
the second roll you need 1-4, for the third roll 1-3,
and for the fourth and final roll 1-2. If you fall off the
first platform, you can swim back to the eastern bank
for the loss of 2 STAMINA points caused by damage
from the poisonous water, If you fall off the second
platform, you swim back to the eastern bank but lose
4 STAMINA points, If you fall off the third platform,
you must swim on to the western bank and lose 4
STAMINA points. If you fall off the fourth platform,
you swim to the western bank but lose 2 sTAMINA
points. If you end up on the western bank, as intended,
turn to 159, If you end up back on the eastern bank,
you can either try again or give up and head south
(turn to 220) or investigate the bilious grey-green
cloud (turn to 169).

270-271

270
Tonight you rest in the comfort of bracken and heather
(restore 2 STAMINA points), but Grinches get among
your Provisions. Grinches are small, weasel-like crea-
tures that are more of a nuisance than a danger. In the
morming, you find that the sneaky creatures have
spoiled 2 meals’ worth of your Provisions before
disappearing back into the undergrowth. You curse
and carry on. About mid-moming of the next day,
you come to the ruins of an ancient town. Will you
bypass the town by heading east (turn to 69) or walk
along tts eerily deserted main street (tum to 393)?

271
You quickly search the bodies before tipping them
into the river, where they immediately sink out of
sight. On one of them, you find a medallion with an
ornate ‘A’ on it, showing his allegiance to Arachnos. If
you want to take the medallion, decide whether to
wear it round your neck or beneath your clothing, or
whether to stow it among your other possessions. On
the other Blackheart you find a map which marks the

272-273

Blackhearts’ encampment. The map does not make il
clear whether there are any more — or even many
more ~ Blackhearts back at the camp. If you want to
risk a visit to the camp, tum to 386. If you continue
south, turn to 373; if you would rather head north
instead, turn to 68,

272
You come to a stout wooden door on your left. You
can hear a rumbling noise coming from behind it. Will
you open if (turn to 348) or press on (turn to 176)?

273
You wail until evening before making your way to the
Baron's mansion, as you figure that he's more likely to
be in then: you also hope that the dark of night will
enable you to move around more safely. The mansion
is in the grand part of town where narrow alleys and
busy streets and squares give way lo leafy lanes and
even the occasional field and copse. One such capse is

274

unfortunately infested with Gutterlags: hyena-like scav-
engers which live in the suburbs but come down into
the towns and cities at night to forage among the
sewers for scraps of meat, Individually they preter
their meat cold and putrid, but a pack of Gut

such as the one that is sneaking through the trees
towards you, will attack live meat like yourself, You
can fight the pack as if it were a single enemy
because, once you have killed-a few of them. the rest
will scatter and slink back into the trees. Bul you
cannot possibly defend yourself against all of them at
once, and every even-numbered Attack Round you
must reduce your STAMINA by 1 point, whatever else
happens during that round,

GUTTERLAGS SKILL 7

If you win, turn to 310.

STAMINA 10

274
The Wraiths treat you to a particularly gruesome
death.

275-276

275

After many twists and turns, the gloomy tunnel leads
eventually to the lair of a Pool Crawler. This monster
is the reason for the security doors you passed earlier
in the funnel. It lies, bubbling, in a pool of stagnant
water, and Arachnos feeds it with the occasional Ore
or Troll from his army. Two baleful eyes appear above
the surface of the pool and size you up; the monster
does not seem concerned with what it sees. It rears up
out of its bed of mud and bones like an enormous
toad. The warts on its mottled back hiss on contact

7 we with the air and give off a sickly-sweet odour It whips
YY TPreyppr i t out a long, spiny tongue towards you. [fa Millipede is

| je) pursuing you, turn to 217. Otherwise, you have to
] 4 DA

HS)

fight the monster.
es SPAR Ke
Aid : ~ POOL CRAWLER SKILL 9 STAMINA 14

If you win, turn to 201

P ‘4
<
“ft

276
The mouth of the ravine through which you must go
in order to escape is guarded by two Flintskin warriors.
You will have to defeat them both to get through, but
their posts are some distance from each other, so you
can ght them one at a time

SKILL STAMINA
First FLENTSKIN 9 8
Second FLINTSKIN 6 7

If you win, you are free. Turn to 16.

277-279

277
During the evening the mists come down and you
spend a chilly, restless night huddled under a low bank
at the western foot of the ridge, before continuing on
your way in the mid-moming, after the sun has broken
through and dispersed the cloud. Will you go north
(turn to 379), south (turn to 455) or west (turn to 8)?

278
Although you plan to stay awake all night, the warmth
from your campfire makes you drowsy and your head
begins to nod forward on to your chest. Roll one dice.
If you roll 1-3, turn to 245; if you roll 4-6, turn to 371.

279
Nothing is that simple. A monstrous alligator cuts
through the water towards you, You dive under the
water to attack its soft underbelly.

ALLIGATOR SKILL 8 STAMINA 10

280-281

If you win, you haul yourself, panting, into the skiff. It
is beautifully preserved, but in style and build it looks
ancient. There are no oars, and there is no other way of
moving the boat yourself. Then you see a slot which is
evidently for money. If you have no money, or if you
decide not to trust this alarming dinghy any longer,
you can swim safely back to a tussock and return the
way you came (furn to 29). IF you pay, will you put in 1
Gold Piece (turn to 247) or 2 Gold Pieces (turn to 173)?

280
‘Quick,’ you say, ‘let me out.’ The Orcish porter does
not seem to be surprised: people often leave his
master’s presence in a hurry. He is deliberately, even
insolently, slow in locating the key and unlocking the
gates. But then you can escape back into the city. Turn

tO 3559.

281
You have reached the north-western edge of the
marsh! Regain 2 Luck points for surviving the mists
and the marsh. If you had any tinder, you find that it
is now too damp to use, You throw it away and
gather more. As you forage, you allow the sunshine to

tll,

282-283

warm you unti] your conscience pricks you to get a
move on. Princess Telessa is waiting for you, and the
fate of the whole world depends on you, You can
regain 3 STAMINA points for your rest, but you have
also picked up some leeches in the marsh. The number
you roll on one dice is the number of leeches clinging
to your flesh; it is also the number of sTAMINA points
you lose prising them off. You feel you are getting
quite close to Arachnos’ lair, Three ways forward look
promising: you can go north-west (turn to g6), north
(turn to 270) or north-east (turn to 126).

282

Although the heat of the fireball only scorches the
stout leather, it destroys any of the following items
you may have: arrow, thread, tinder and oil, and 1
meal’s worth of Provisions. Turn to 199.

283
‘What's going on?’ you ask the guard who has come
to your table.

‘There’s been a murder on the other side of town,’ the
guard replies. ‘A “business” rival of those two villains
over there was conveniently trampled by a horse. No
witnesses, and our only clue is a bit of torn handker-
chief which the victim was clutching.’

284

A name pops into your mind; you think you might
have overheard who the murderer may be. Will you
say:

Anfold? Turn to 369

Twygarl? Turn to 17

Marinus? Turn to 392

Pengarl? Tum to ga

Elfbane? Tum to 135

Penfold? Turn to 294
284

You burst into Arachnos’ chambers ~ and are faced
with the most extraordinary sight of your life, The
room is filled with mirrors; you estimate that there
must be about four hundred of them. They are arranged
so that they all show the same image: Arachnos, who
is laughing at you and holding a dagger to Princess
Telessa’s neck. Which one. of all these images, is the
original? You have grabbed Ophis’ crossbow. Even
though you can have only one shot, you are confident
that you will be able to make it count: you can kill
Arachnos without harming a hair on Telessa’s head.
But which image will you shoot at? If you don’t know,
you have to watch Arachnos kill Telessa, and you
have failed.

285-287

285

You know that Pterolins are notorious for hoarding
any trinkets they may find in the clothing of their
victims. You locate the nest, secure the rope round a
tree, and abseil down. The nest is on a ledge, but
behind it a tunnel extends into the cliff. Will you
rummage through the debris in and around the nest
(turn to 267) or investigate the tunnel first (turn to
208)?

286

On your way up towards the Baron, you step on
the second stair. This was a mistake, you realize, in the
brief time it takes you to drop ten metres or so on to
the spikes embedded in the ground below

287

Your struggle up the slope costs you 1 STAMINA
point in cuts and bruises, When you reach the top,
you find that this is just the first in a series of ridges
extending to the north like the bow-waves of a boat.
You have committed yourself to an arduous journey
You must eat one meal from your Provisions here, just
to keep your strength up, but it does not restore any
STAMINA points

288

On each of the next two days, as you struggle
northwards and slightly to the west, following the
contours of the land, you will have a hostile encounter.
Roll one dice twice to find out from the list below
what you must fight

SKILL STAMINA
1. GARK 7 11
2. WILD BOAR 6 5
3. BRISTLE BEAST 5 7
4. HILL GIANT 9 11
5. HARRUN 6 7
6. GOBLIN 6 6

If you survive all the hazards of the Hopeless Hills,
fur to 69,

288
You see absolutely no reason to do anything. Life is
horrible anyway, you reckon, so you might as well die
here and now as somewhere else at a later date. And
that is exactly what you do.

289-292

289

In the livid glow of a Deathmoor sunset, you come to
an ancient door set in the hillside. Although it clearly
originates in the lost civilization which once populated
this land, you are certain that it is now the entrance to
Arachnos’ hide-out. You study in particular the three
depressions in the door. [f you have the three keys
necessary to get in through the door, you can work
out where to tum to next. Otherwise, you leave to
look for another way in (turn to 246).

290
You are completely and hopelessly lost. Only luck will
see you through the marsh in these mists without a
compass. As long as you are in this state, you will not
be offered a choice of directions, since you have no
means of knowing what direction you are going in. So
now turn to either 55 or 154.

291
A sleek, feline body leaps through the darkening air,
claws slashing at your back. Your lifeblood is soon
absorbed by the thirsty soil.

292

Unseen eyes are relieved to see you turn away from
the gulley. But other eyes are also watching your
progess — a Giant Nandibear is glad you chose to
walk its way, since it is hungry. Larger and more
ferocious than its smaller cousins, it rises on to its hind
legs and lumbers at you, snarling. Even your heart
sinks at the size of the beast.

293-294

GIANT NANDIBEAR SKILL 9

If you survive four Attack Rounds, some cavemen
suddenly pour out of the nearby gulley and begin to
pelt the Nandibear with stones and crude wooden
spears, The beast gives up the unequal struggle and
trots away into the gathering twilight. You turn around
to thank your rescuers, but they too have vanished
Puzzled, but grateful, you must continue on your way,
Turn to 382

STAMINA 14

293
You fall and land awkwardly among the shattered
blocks of stone on the floor below. Roll one dice: on
an even number, you lose 2 STAMINA points: on an
odd number, 3 sTAMINA points. If you are still alive,
you leave the building; turn to 219,

294
The guard checks, but no one knows of anyone with
that name, and there’s no one resembling your vague
description in the bar where you send the guards, You
decide to turn in for the night; turn to 388.

295-297

295
When you wake up, you are still walking. Although
your mind recalls nothing, your muscles know that
you have been sleep-walking for hours. You are lucky
to be suffering nothing worse than exhaustion (deduct
2 STAMINA points). Still, at least the mist has dispersed
now, but where are you? Turn to 379,

296

The fight has taken place near one of the stilted huts
of the village and you may have caused the hut to
collapse during the fight. If the hut is still standing,
you may turn to 385 to search it, if you wish. Alterna-
tively, you can try to search another hut (tum to 6) or
leave the village altogether and continue north (tum
to 207) or turn west (burn fo 34),

297
That was stupid. If you do have to tell lies, you should
at least make them less easy to see through. The
Orcish porter glances at a diary and sees no entry
under your name, whatever name you have given him.
You may be able to bribe your way in, however, if
you offer him 4 Gold Pieces (turn to 202), or you can
leave and look for another way in (turn to 177).

298-299

298

Otus grits his teeth and tries to resist the mysterious
power of the glowing Truthstone. He cannot quite
resist, but he manages to give an enigmatic answer to
your question, rather than the plain truth. His mind
seems almost to be wandering, reviewing his life — as
one is said to do at the moment of death ‘My parents
died,’ he croaks, ‘after a sixth of my life; then for another
twelfth I wandered the wastes until Arachnos found me
— you could call that my coming of age, I suppose! For a
seventh part | laboured in his mines, until he saw my
potential and promoted me, I found a mate then, and five
years later we had a child. He died, though, eight years
ago, when he was half my age...’ His voice trails off.

You cry out, ‘But how old are you? Er... I mean, how
old were you?’ you add, as his eyes glaze over. Try to
work out his age, then turn to 284.

299
The flames do not burn you — they rot you, instantly!
Roll one dice. If you roll 4-6, your flesh drops off
your bones, and you are dead. If you roll 1-3, you
must lose 6 STAMINA points before you can flee; if
you are still alive, turn to 104.

400-302

300
The guards spot you at once. They recapture you and
give you a beating (deduct 3 sTAMINA points) before
dragging you off to the elders’ hut. Turn to 352

~~ eS oN >) re ay

301

The leading skeleton’s jaw creaks open and shut a few
times; it is trying to speak, after years of silence, At
last the words emerge, but it takes such an effort that
you find yourself mouthing them along with the
skeleton, as if willing it to get them out. ‘What use
have we of this, stranger?’ the skeleton croaks. “You
are a fool, but you are not evil. You may go.’ The
skeletal horde stops pressing in on you and allows
you to proceed on your way. You may now search
the ruined farmhouse (tum to 391), continue north-
wards past it (turn to 263), or turn around and go
south (turn to 355). If you have a Truthstone, you
may wish to try its powers on the leader of the
Skeletons before you leave (tum to 78)

302
Test your Luck. If you are Lucky, turn to 276; if you are
Unlucky, turn to 203.

‘uly

ifs kh ee A

SUEY Nir aT

I]
=

3937-305

393
You kick the Baron’s sword out of reach and bend
over him. ‘Quickly!’ you hiss. ‘What do you know
about Princess Telessa’s kidnap?’

‘So that’s what this is about, the Baron gasps, ‘Arach-
nos has her beneath Deathmoor. I made all the arrange-
ments for him. Once he has Arion, King Jonthane . . .
no choice ...’ The Baron is fading fast, but he rallies
himself just enough to spit out the words: ‘For this
information you have killed me, but I’m glad to give
it, since it will kill you. No one gets out of Deathmoor
alive’ He struggles up to a half-sitting position and
purses his lips. You step back, fearing he’s going to
spit at you, but instead he emits a shrill whistle. You
hear a loud rustling sound and look up to see a dozen
of the largest vampire bats you have ever seen boiling
out of the roof towards you, Will you stand and fight
(turn to 209) or not (turn to 130)?

304
Despite your host’s vigil beside your bed, poker in
hand, you sleep well and wake up, refreshed, in the
moming. Regain 2 sTAMINA points. In the moming
you head west again, trying to pick up Otus’ trail.
Turn to 216.

505
In the wall behind the lever lives a tiny Gering Snake.
By pulling the lever down, you have allowed it to
slither at lightning speed down the lever and sink its
fangs into your finger. You will be dead within thirty
seconds,

306

306

Stealthily, you follow Otus at a safe distance. Once, he
half turns his head, as if sniffing the air, and you have
to duck down behind a fallen tree-trunk, your heart in
your mouth, After that, you let him get further ahead.
It is clear that he is making for Deathmoor, a region of
legendary harshness, into which no man within living
memory has travelled and survived to tell the tale.
Once, long ago, it was home to an advanced civiliza-
tion, wise in the ways of the stars. Now it is a chill
place of cruel, strange beasts and swirling, magical
mists, the residue of the sorcerous battle which caused
the downfall of that ancient culture. Folk say that
when the mist descends, a traveller’s sense of direction
is utterly ruined, until only luck and common sense
can bring one through. It will be very hard to track
Otus through Deathmoor, but you are confident of
your abilities Suddenly a pheasant rises with a noisy
clatter of wings from some tall grass to your left. Otus
is too far ahead to hear it, but you wheel in that
direction just in time to see a dark shape hurtle
towards you. Test your Luck. If you are Lucky, turn to
97; if you are Unlucky, turn to 187.

307-308

307

You back away from the skeleton before trying the
crown on, in case the action triggers it back to life or
something ._. but the skeleton lies as still as ever and
nothing untoward happens. After a while, you remove
the crown and you feel some power impelling you to
put it back on the skeleton’s head, rather than take it
with you. Outwardly you feel no different, but this
selfless act means that your LUCK and SKILL are re-
stored to their Initial levels. Will you now take the
cylinder from the skeleton prince’s hand (turn to 232)
or leave the ship (turn to 188)?

308
As you creep through the shrubbery beside the west
wall of the garden in the gathering dusk, some sixth
sense tells you that something other than plant-life

5909

is in the patch of shrubs immediately ahead, Just then
the Baron’s pet, a tawny, sleek bundle of fur and savage
claws, leaps with a low snarl aut of the bushes and at
your throat. You've never seen a Scytheran Desert
Cat outside a zoo, and you certainly feel that that is
where they belong — behind bars

DESERT CAT SKILL 8 STAMINA 10

If you win, you lie low for a while, making sure that
the fight didn’t attract any unwelcome attention, then
you leave the cat’s body to the slugs and continue on
your way. A deeper shadow directly ahead of you
shows you where there is a narrow passage running
along the side of the house, You can take this passage
towards the front of the house (turn to 114) or stay at
the back of the house (turn to 366)

309
The badly wounded Troll-Orc on the ground has
raised herself on to one elbow and with her last breath
fired a poisoned dart from her blowpipe at you. Her
aim is true: your adventure is over.

310-311

310
You are extra careful for the rest of your trek up to
the Baron’s house; the yellow sandstone of the mansion
seems warm and welcoming in the glow of the late
sun. The house is surrounded by a high wall. You can
either pose as a businessman and approach the front
gate boldly {tur to 125), or you can look for another
way in (turn to 177),

514

A short while later, you find yourself in the middle of
a particularly dense patch of mist. Parts of it seem to
be swaying to and fro, like ghostly candle-flames
flickering in a draught. This is unnerving, because you
can feel no breezes to cause this motion, Then the
Mere-folk talk to you in strange, half-whispering, half-
whistling voices. ‘Follow me,’ they say, ‘follow me.
You try to talk to them, but they do not understand. If
you have a whistle which will let you talk to them,
you will know where to turn to next, Otherwise, will
you follow them (turn to 47) or not (turn to 253)?

3127313

312

You come across a very interesting letter. Written in
black ink so thick that a blind person could trace the
letters with his fingertips, it is signed with a spiky ‘A’
It says that, of the three half-giants, the bearer of the
letter (whose name is Otus) is more to be trusted than
the other two, who ijoathe each other. Their love of
money and their hostility towards each other make
them, the letter continues, ‘less loyal to me personally
and less useful for our plan, So tell Otus alone the
time and place of the*Princess’s picnic. He will do the
rest.) Make a note of the hostility of the two half-
giants, and of the number of this paragraph,

The Baron is clearly implicated in the kidnapping of
Telessa. You are on the right trail; regain 1 LUCK
point. At this moment, however, a spark leaps out of
your tinderbox and the flimsy pieces of paper and
their dry wooden boxes catch fire with a whoomph!
Within seconds, the fire is raging out of control. You
have time to grab one handful of paper and run: your
eyebrows are already starting to singe. Roll one dice.
If you roll a 6, turn to 264; otherwise, turn to 218.

313
Cross the items off your Adventure Sheet. You try to
engage the man in conversation but he is not very
forthcoming. All he says is: ‘Don’t you try to sweet-
talk me. I'm an Outposter and proud of it, I know
what you furriners are like — one of you killed Granny
Longshanks next door. Huge feller, he were. So you
just shut up and sleep on that bed there, and Ili watch
you all night like a hawk. I’ve got food from you and

314-315

that’s all | want’ You wonder whether the ‘huge feller’
was the half-giant, Otus. Will you leave your surly
host and investigate next door (tum to 91) or stay
where you are (turn to 504)?

314
His mace strikes your shoulder, but not your fighting

arm. Deduct 2 sTAMINA points, then turn to 339 to
fight the invisible warrior.

315
An Ogre sticks his head out of the window; he spots
you standing like a frozen rabbit in the light, and
tumbles out of the window. You get one strike in
while he is in the course of doing this, but then he
picks himself up and comes at you, wielding a double-
headed axe,

OGRE SKILL 7 STAMINA 8

If you win, will you stop to search the body (tum to
331), scramble through the open window (turn to 77),
or go on through the hatch (tum to 237)?

316-319

316
If you have either a throwing-knife or a piece of
sharpened flint, turn to 37; otherwise turn to 63.

517
You win, The blood is spurting from a gash in
Fang-zen’s hand. You had wagered 6 Gold Pieces,
but Fang-zen now confesses that he is broke One
of the few points of honour among thieves is never
welshing on a bet; the others at the table scowl and
sneer at Fang-zen, and start to draw clubs and knives
“You had better give me the letter, then,’ you say,
and Fang-zen has no choice. He reluctantly pulls
King Jonthane’s letter out of his pouch and passes it
across the table to you The quest is now yours!
You notice the royal seal, with its intertwined snakes
looking like the number ‘88’, before you tuck the letter
safely away (add it to your Adventure Sheet) and turn
to leave the tavern. Test your Luck. If you are Lucky,
turn to 337; if you are Unlucky, turn to 353

318
The sixth tussock is the last. As far as you can tell in
the thick mist, only water now stretches ahead of you.
What is more, a small skiff lies at rest, despite being
apparently unanchored, a short way off to your right
Will you swim to the skiff (turn to 27g) or make your
way back over the tussocks (turn to 29)?

319
The room you now find yourself in is lit by torches in
brackets on the walls. The flickering light reveals a

320

grim torture-chamber. In the centre of the room stands
a stretching-rack; on the walls, pincers, chisels and
other sharp implements are neatly arrayed, You see
whips with metal balls at the end of leather thongs,
and a coffin-shaped box whose open lid reveals vicious
spikes that are designed to sink slowly under the
weight of the closed lid into the flesh of a victim lying
in the coffin. As you step into the chamber, a plaintive
voice from the room you have just left whimpers,
‘Help! Help me, please!’ Will you return to the previous
room (turn to 227) or leave the torture-chamber by
the stone stairs leading up to a sound-proofed door
(turn to 197)?

320
You shrink back against the wall, pretending to be
terrified, while you fumble in your pouch, saying,
‘Mercy ... mercy, lord. I have something for you.’
Then you pull out the potion and down it at a single
gulp (cross it off your Adventure Sheet). Immediately
the invisible warrior becomes clear to you. He is no
more than a renegade Dwarf, wielding a spiked and
studded mace,

RENEGADE DWARF SKILL 7

If you win, you find 4 Gold Pieces on his body. Tum
to 59.

STAMINA 7

321-325

321

You begin to see skeletons, complete or in fragments,
littering the slopes on either side. Most of them are
animal skeletons, but some are clearly human or human-
oid. Wait! That one didn’t move, did it? Surely, that
hand didn’t slide along the ground towards that wrist,
then click into place? Will you make a run for the
ruined farmhouse you can see ahead at the end of the
valley (turn to 351) or stand and face the rattling
horde of human skeletons you now see gathering
round you (turn to 124)?

322

The Flintskins don’t quite know what to make of you;
they are not servants of Evil and they sense that you
aren't either. Luckily for you, the opinion prevails
among the elders that you must be on a mission
against their arch-enemy, Arachnos. They solemnly
present you with one of the tribe’s most precious
totems: it is a branch from an ancient ebony tree,
about thirty centimetres long, with a silver hexagram
protruding slightly from one end. The branch also has
the number 158 inscribed on it (make a note of this).
The Flintskins then escort you out of their safe gorge
and see you on your way. Add 1 Lucx point, then tum
to 16.

523

‘No,’ you say, ‘I have no appointment as such — but I
do have these .. .’ and you show him 2 Gold Pieces. A
greedy glint comes into his eyes, and he furtively
opens the gate just wide enough to let you in. (Deduct

3247-325

the gold from your Adventure Sheet.) He secretes the
money somewhere about his foul person and disap-
pears back inside the gatehouse while you make your
way across the courtyard, When the porter isn’t look-
ing, you can sneak along a path that skirts the west
side of the house, if you like (turn to 183), or you can
boldly go up to the front door of the mansion (tum to

155),

324.

The intoxicating fumes make you feel giddy and
nauseous, and you reel about. Test your Luck. If you
are Lucky, when you stagger you go in the direction
of the cavern wall; if you are Unlucky, you fall into
the pool of molten lava and perish horribly. If you are
still alive, deduct 2 sTAMINA points because of the
effecls of the fumes, then turn to 45-

325
The door swings open to reveal an underground cave,
which is lit by smoky torches in brackets on the walls

326

You are confronted by two huge statues of reclining,
horned, goat-like creatures. Beside each statue is the
entrance to a passage. The statue on the left has a sign
which reads:

Will you take the passage to the left (turn to 383) or
to the right (turn to 71)?

326

The door opens with a grinding noise and you step
through into the gloom of the tunnel beyond, The
door slams shut behind you so that you are now in
pitch-blackness. If you have a tinderbox, flint and
some oil, you can make a crude lamp; or you may
have an actual lamp. Otherwise, you must reduce your
SKILL by 1 point until you are told you are back in a
well-lit area ... if you ever get there. Progressing
mainly by your sense of touch, you come across a
turning to the left; a rank smell is issuing from it. Will
you take this turning (tum to 153) or continue straight
on (turn to 94)?

327-329

327
‘Dog?’ says the Ogre with a puzzled look on his face
‘But the master don’t have no dogs.’ He then pulls a
double-headed axe out of his belt and lumbers rapidly
down the passage towards you. You barely have time
to get to your feet and draw your sword. Turn to 397

328
Thinking quickly, you smash the phial of slippery oil
on the ground in the Troll-Orc’s path, He loses his
footing and crashes heavily to the ground, where you
dispatch him easily. Cross the oil off your Adventure
Sheet, then turn to 181

329
As soon as you leave the bar, you are mugged by a
team of professional footpads who had observed how
much you won, They rob you of 2 meals’ worth of
Provisions and 8 Gold Pieces, before you scare them
off with your sword. Make the appropriate adjustments
to your Adventure Sheet, then turn to 388

330-334

330
These toadstools are extremely nutritious: restore your
STAMINA to its Inital level. Unfortunately, they are
also very rare and you have already eaten all that are
available in the vicinity. You can now try some green-
spotted toadstools (turn to 245) or some blue-spotted
ones (tum to 136), if you wish. Or you can continue
on your way (turn to 69),

331
Have you already dealt with the gardener? If you
have, turn to 32; otherwise, turn to 128.

332
If your current LucK score is 6 or above, tum to 162.
If it is less, nothing happens; return to 253 and try
again

333
You blow on the whistle to signal your agreement to

the idea of following them. They lead you safely out
of the north-western reaches of the marsh. Turn to 284,

334
If you try to barge one of the stilts down, roll three

dice; if the total rolled is less than your current
STAMINA score, you succeed. If you try to hack
through one of the stilts with your sword, roll two
dice and get less than your current sKILL score You
decide which one of these methods to use. If you are
successful, turn to 65; otherwise, retum to 361 and

finish the fight.
335

335

The door glides silently open and you step through
into a well-lit tunnel. You walk on, but soon from up
ahead you can hear the din of a large number of
soldiers, and you see a glow coming from the huge
cavern in which they are encamped. When a turning
appears to your left, therefore, you decide to take it
You now find yourself in a short corridor which ends
at a grandiose set of double doors, The sickening
carvings on the doors, and the motif of the letter
A interlaced, leave you in no doubt that this way
leads to the chambers of Arachnos himself, How-
ever, there are three other doors in the corridor,
with a signboard sticking out over each doorway
The signs read ‘Ophis’, ‘Otus’ and ‘Oman’. You've
already met Otus; the other two must be his half-giant
brothers.

You can see all this through the mesh of a steel
net which is attached by cords to bells on each of
the three doors. There is no way to get through
here except by attracting the attention of the three
half-giants. You boldly jangle the bells and wait.
In no time, the three half-giants come bustling out
of their rooms. They are huge! Knotted muscles
bulge on their arms and their chests seem about
to break through their leather vests. One fingers
an axe, another a crossbow, and the third a club
studded with sharpened nails. It is Otus who peers
at you through the mesh. Are you wearing an
‘A'-helmet? IF you are, turn to 396; if you are not, tum
to 19.

336-338

3536
You manage to wound the watching Troll-Ore, but
then he spins around to defend himself against your
surprise attack.

TROLL-ORC SKILL 7

If the fight is not over by the end of the second
Attack Round, turn to 309. If you win, turn to a7.

STAMINA 4

337
You shove your way through the crowd, who give

way in awe at your exploits. Those who did not know
you already are asking others your name. Restore 1
Luck point. The barman catches your eye and beckons
you over, Will you go and see what he wants (turn to
23) or not (turn to 384)?

338
The skeletons go berserk at the sight of the insignia of
Arachnos, the dark lord who enslaved them and had
them killed. They tear you to pieces. Once the crows
and Mordidas have finished with you, your bones too
will bleach on the hillside.

339-341

339
Because you cannot see your opponent, you must

reduce your Attack Strength by 2 points for this ight,
in addition to any sxitx penalties you may have
already incurred. Only your lightning-swift reactions
to the sounds of your enemy's breathing and his
movements can save you now!

INVISIBLE WARRIOR SKILL 7
If by chance you win, turn to 59.

STAMINA 7

340
You sneak safely to the front of the house. No one
stirs in the gatehouse at the far end of the courtyard as
you tum the handle of the front door and it opens
noiselessly on well-oiled hinges. Turn to 197.

341
You let the bucket down then wind it back up, full of
clear water. You dip your hand in and sip carefully.
The water is refreshing and cool — and is a subtle
poison, whose action may be triggered later in your
adventure. Write WELL on your Adventure Sheet, then
turn to 42

342-344

342
A pair of Marsh Ghosts loom out of the fog. The eyes
of one glow a livid green, while the other's glow
red. They use their magic to solidify their ghostly
weapons, a silvery spear and a rune-inscribed sword,
and they glide into the attack. If you have a shield,
you can fight them one at a time, Otherwise, you
must choose which one to fight as normal, while the
other gets a free strike at you; you cannot wound it,
but if its Attack Strength is higher than yours, it
wounds you, causing the usual damage.

SKILL STAMINA
First MARSH GHOST 7 8
Second MARSH GHOST 7 &

If you win, you watch in astonishment as first their
forms then their weapons dissolve into the mist. Turn

to 214.

343
They al] agree that they wish they had a piece of the

action, since mining is much more profitable and secure
than fishing. They cannot give you any specific infor-
mation, however You can go to the market-place, if
you still need to (turn to 150), or you can now head
west out of the city in search of the kidnappers (tum
to 200}

344
You are about halfway down the slope when a savage

Troll-Orc sprints out from cover and races down the
hill towards you, a spear tucked under his arm, ready

345-346

to impale you. If you have some sallow-seed oil, turn
to 328; otherwise, turn to 223.

345
You race down the gulley ahead of the huge boulder,

but the time spent looking for somewhere to hide
allows the boulder to catch up with you; you must
lose 6 STAMINA points, If you survive, turn to 146.

346

The marsh seems endless as you plod on for countless
hours, snatching a few hours of fitful sleep from time
to time, although the light never seerns to change in
this eerie mist. You notice that, in avoiding the worst
areas of bog, you are gradually veering west. Will you
allow yourself to do this (turn to 281) or will you
correct your course (turn to 73)?

ee
347-349

347
Only a few drops of the acid splash into your eyes.
Reduce your Attack Strength by 2 points for this fight
only.

SPIT VIPER SKILL 4 STAMINA 4

If you win, you hurry on until you come to a place
where the river is fordable. You can either wade across
the river here (turn to 14) or continue south (turn to 58).

348
Steep steps on the other side of the door take you by
surprise, and you stumble down them, You have
entered Arachnos’ forge, tended by a truly enormous
Ogre, and your noisy entrance has attracted his atten-
tion. He seizes a newly tempered blade from a rack on
the floor and lunges at you.

OGRE SMITH SKILL 8 STAMINA 12

If you win, the dying Ogre falls back and upends a
trough of molten metal, He dies in agony, and the red-
hot liquid spills all over the floor, leaving you no
choice but to leave by the forge door, You have time
only to snatch a helmet, marked with the letter A, if
you wish to. In the passage outside, will you turn left
(turn to 276) or right (turn to 82)?

349
When a small fireball hurtles down the tunnel towards
your face, you have no means of protection. You bury
your face in your arms, but you must still lose 4
STAMINA points. Turn fo 199

350-352

3590
The smell of the bonfire increases; then you hear the
sound of someone whistling tunelessly. Do you press
forward with extra caution (turn to 254) or retrace
your steps and go round the other side of the garden
{turn to 308)?

351
If the total rolled is less than, or equal to, your current
STAMINA Score, you make it safely to the ruined farm-
house, If the total is greater than your STAMINA, the skel-
etons catch you out in the open and tear you to pieces
in seconds. If you reach the farmhouse, you can at
least defend yourself in the doorway as they come at
you one by one, The skeletons have armed themselves
with rusty tools that were lying around in the farmyard.

SKILL STAMINA
First SKELETON 6 5
Second SKELETON 6 4
Third SKELETON 6 4
Fourth SKELETON 6 a

Once you have defeated four skeletons, the remainder
become strangely listless; their arms drop to their
sides, their weapons clatter to the ground, and they
crumple in piles of bones on the cobbled yard. Will
you search the ntined farmhouse (turn to 391), head
north up the slope at the end of the valley (turn to
263) or go back southwards (turn to 355)?

352
You are taken into the elders’ hut. The guards pin

353-354

your hands roughly behind your back and hold a
dagger to your throat while your belongings are
searched. If they find an A-medallion among your
possessions, turn to 400; otherwise, turn to 105.

353
Your game of pinfinger with Fang-zen attracted the

attention of most of the tavern’s customers, including
some decidedly unsavoury types, the kind of adven-
turer who would stab a defenceless Elf in the back
with a poisoned blade. They saw Fang-zen give you
the letter, and they rather want it for themselves. Two
of them block your way out of the tavern. You will
have to fight them both at once. Choose which one
you will fight in any Attack Round, then roll dice as
usual for the Attack Strengths of all three of you. You
win or lose as normal against your chosen opponent.
The other one will wound you if his Attack Strength
is higher than yours, but he will miss if it is lower,
while you can do nothing to hurt him in that round,

SKILL STAMINA
THUG 6 8
YOB 7 9

If you win, turn to 337.

354
Your sword slices into something vital. Dark blood

colours the water and you are free to pull yourself on
to the tussock. Return to 221 to resume your perilous
journey

re

355-359

355
After a while, you come across a well; there is a bench

beside it on which you are grateful to rest, Despite the
well’s obvious age, it looks clean and tidy, as if it has
been properly maintained. A wooden bucket hangs
from a chain. It is true that you are thirsty, and your
flask also needs topping up. Will you drink from the
well (tum to 341) or not (turn to 42)?

356

You walk down the timnel — and suddenly you sink
into the floor up to your knees. To your absolute
horror, the ‘floor’ consists of thousands upon thousands
of grey maggots, perfectly camouflaged in the colour
of the surrounding rock. Now you have disturbed
them into violent motion, Your thrashing carries you
deeper into the mass of them. You trip and they fill
your mouth with their disgusting wriggling. You
cannot breathe ..

557
You can now either go to the market-place (turn to
450), or hang around the docks for a while (turn to

171).

358
Test your Luck, If you are Lucky, turn to 375; if you are
Unlucky, turn to 293.

359
As you make your way back down into the poorer

districts of Arion, it all begins to make sense. Arachnos

360

the Life-Stealer is up to his old evil ways again.
Centuries ago, in the far north-eastern promontory of
Khul there stood a fair and prosperous trading city
called Faleha. Arachnos gradually made himself master
of all its revenue. Monetary gain was not his purpose,
though he certainly needed to pay the increasing
numbers of his servants, soldiers and minions. Arach-
nos is a creature of Chaos. He must sow Chaos and
Evil wherever he goes and, unlike the usual thugs you
come across in your adventures, he is intelligent
enough to pursue more subtle plans for spreading Evil.
That, not wealth, is his pleasure. Now it looks as
though he has set his sights on Arion. He wants to
manipulate the trade in gold until he controls enough
of Arion to bring King Jonthane to his knees. No
doubt his plans will not stop at controlling just
northern Khul; he plans to set up an Empire of Evil!
There is no further time to waste. You resolve to be
the one to put an end to his foul plans. You set off
westwards, out of the city, to meet the kidnappers.
Tum to 200.

360

You get close enough to hear heated conversation
going on inside — but, since you don’t understand the
language, this gets you nowhere. You estimate that
there are maybe ten Flintskins inside, Will you leap
through the doorway and attack (tum to 166), go to
one of the other huts (tum to 198), grab a flaming
branch from the bonfire and throw it on to the
thatched roof of the elders’ hut (tum to 11) or sneak
out of the village (tum to 302)?

es
ct
Hh
Be |

yh

|

361-362

361

There is a breed of Orc that lives only in dank, gloomy
places — by underground pools, or in marshes like this.
They build small settlements of crude huts on stilts
above the mud, and they eat raw fish and any other
small creatures they can kill. In the thick mist you
stumble into such a village before you know it. Luckily,
most of the warriors are away on a hunting trip, but
you still have to fight two Marsh Orcs at once.
Choose which one to fight normally: you win or lose
against this one as usual. Roll for the Attack Strength
or the other Orc too: if it is higher than yours, he has
wounded you, but you cannot injure him

SKILL STAMINA
First MARSH ORC 7 8
Second MARSH ORC 7 Vi

As soon as you lose 4 or more sTAMINA points during
this ght, turn to 43. If you win, tum to 296

362
The leading skeleton’s jaw creaks open and shut a few
times: it is trying to speak, after years of silence. At
last the words emerge, but it takes such an effort that
you find yourself mouthing them along with the
skeleton, as if willing it to get them right. ‘What use
have we of this, stranger?’ the skeleton croaks. ‘You
are a fool, but you are not evil. You may go.’ The
skeletal horde stops pressing in on you and allows
you to proceed on your way. You may now search
the ruined farmhouse (tum to 391), continue north-
wards past it (turn to 263), or turn around and go

363-365

south (turn to 355). If you have a Truthstone, you
may wish to try its powers on the leader of the
skeletons before you leave (turn to 78).

363
Roll two dice, If the total is less than, or equal to, your
current SKILL score, turn to 260: otherwise, turn to

336

364

They look at one another in surprise, ‘I thought
everyone knew the Isles of Dawn are the place for
them,’ one of them says. Then they go off, laughing at
the depth of your ignorance. You can now go to the
market-place, if you still need to (turn to 150), or you
can head west out of the city in search of the kidnap-
pers (turn to 200).

365
The tussocks and streams, bogs and rushes, are starting
to look terribly familiar. Could you be walking around
in circles? If you have been here twice before, turn to
288. Otherwise, turn to either 55, 342, or 76.

hE, Ll Ud,

366-369

366

You reach the corner of the house and reconnoitre the
whole expanse of the rear of the house, A smooth,
well-trodden earth path runs along its length, bizarrely
littered with the corpses of birds. You don’t know
what to make of this. The ground-floor windows are
all securely locked, so there are only two ways to
enter the house here: you could climb up some old,
sturdy ivy and break in through an upper window
(tum to 38), or you could lift a hatch-door which
appears to lead to a cellar (turn to 242)

367
The helmsman takes you away from here all right.
You float off into the mist, never to be seen again.

368

Keeping the cliff to your left, you continue westwards,
following the movement of the sun overhead. The sun
is dropping low over the horizon ahead of you when
you come to a fork. The same landslip which caused
the cliff to your left also formed a secondary gulley,
running parallel to the cliff and sloping gently down-
wards. You can continue to the west along this gulley
(turn to 25) or you can turn slightly to the north past
it (turn to 292).

369
The guard checks, but no one knows of anyone with
that name, and there’s no one resembling your vague
description in the bar where you send the guards. You
decide to turn in for the night; turn to 388.
370-372

370
Otus pockets the object, but then makes a signal to Ophis
You furn to flee, but a crossbow pierces your heart.

371
You are only dozing lightly, so you can easily hear
the approach of the ravenous timber wolf which has
been attracted by the scent of your Provisions. Her
eyes glint red in the firelight, and her defence is
savage, because back in her den her hungry cubs are
anxiously awaiting her return,

TIMBER WOLF SKILL 6 STAMINA 6

If you win, you sleep fitfully for the rest of the night,
and in the morning you try to pick up Otus’ trail.
Turn to 216.

372

You land easily in the tunnel . .. and trigger a trap: a
slab of rock crashes down in front of you, blocking the
way ahead and releasing a swarm of homets, You race
out of the tunnel but have to lose 3 sTAMINA points
through their vicious stings, Moreover, the swarm
pursues you for some distance down the hole, so you
have to ignore the next side tunnel and turn to 210.

,

373-375

You have been following the river for a while when a
slight movement in the bushes to your left attracts
your attention and you turn your head towards it —
which is precisely how Spit Vipers always get their
victims. The large snake spits a ball of acid through
the air at your eyes. Test your Luck, If you are Lucky,
turn to 347; if you are Unlucky, turn to 127,

374
Will you charge down the passage, hoping to knock

your invisible opponent off his feet (turn to 380),
swing your sword at him (turn to 74) or try to climb
back up the magical tunnel which brought you down
(turn to 152)?

375
Your fingers find a secure hold on the step above, as

half a dozen huge blocks behind you crash all the way
down into the basement. If your current sTAMINA is
14 or more, turn to 49; otherwise, turn to 293

ea...
376-379

376
You dash back out into the village square. You will be
able to escape from the village, but first you will have
to fight two Flintskins, one after the other, on your
way out. Deduct 1 point from your Attack Strength
for these fights only, because your eyes are still water-
ing and smarting from the smoke.

SKILL STAMINA
First FLINTSKIN 6 6
Second FLINTSKIN 6 5

If you win, turn to 302.

377
If you have a shield, tum to 26; otherwise, turn to 349

378
You empty all your money on to the ground in front
of the three half-giants; then you look at Ophis and
say, ‘Oman gave me this money, which he stole from
you.’ Ophis’ face darkens in fury. If there are more
than zo Gold Pieces on the ground, turn to 248; if
there are 10 or fewer, turn to 143.

379

You are waiking through a valley; bleak hills rise to
either side. You have a strong sense that you have
been here before or maybe it’s just that one piece of
moorland looks much like another The sun on your
right is climbing in the sky, but it cannot dispel the
fear in your heart as to what may lie ahead. Will you
carry on (turn to 321) or turn around (turn to 355)?

2
9 >
= «* ,
: wy —_ * ms
\
. 2 ’ . ° -
™ a> - << ' — *
Ss ea

ee dU ee | he eS hr ETETTLLTTTTCLTTETC*E

380-383

380
He was not expecting this. You crash heavily into him,
and you both fall to the floor. You pick yourself up,
turn to where you now know him to be and prepare to
fight. Turn to 339.

381
As long as you have the shield, you will have to de-
duct sTAMINA points only after every even-numbered
Attack Round which you lose during any future fight.
However, it may hamper you in some activities. Now
turn to 357.

382
Regain 1 Luck point for having survived Deathmoor
so far. Night is drawing in as you approach a small
hillock. There is something on top of the hillock: a pile
of rocks, perhaps, You can either investigate it (turn to
139) or ignore it (turn to 144)

383
Spikes shoot out of the floor, walls and ceiling and
impale you from all sides. Your death is mercifully swift.

384-387

384
Will you now head west out of the city, to begin your
quest (turn to 200), or stay in Arion for a while (turn
to 222)?

385
There is a ladder under the hut which goes up to a
hole in the middle of the floor. As you are climbing
the ladder, a female Orc pours scalding slops down on
your head and shoulders! Lose 2 sTAMINA points, You
can continue up the ladder (turn to 110) or go back
down and try another hut (turn to 6), or you may
leave the village and continue to the north (turn to
207) or turn west (turn to 34)

386

The encampment lies a little way to the south-east
There are no guards, and it seems that the two
Blackhearts you killed were based there alone. How-
ever, you find little of interest. You decide not to take
any of their food, which to you looks and smells
repulsive. You do notice a piece of broken stone with
an ‘S’ on it, but you don’t know what to make of that-
You leave and return to the river-side, where you can
now continue south (turn to 373) or head north instead
(turn to 68).

387
Something slimy and very strong wraps itself round
your ankle, You jab down at it with your sword, but it
is pulling you under. Test your Luck. If you are Lucky,
turn to 354; if you are Unlucky, turn to 61.
388-389

388
You return to your boat for the night In the early
hours of the morming, two fish-like shapes pull them-
selves over the side of your boat. Scarlet pearls are
sacred to Pelagines, and they have sent a raiding-party
to recover the one you ‘stole’ (as they see it) from
Takio. Under their law, this crime is punishable by
death. Pelagines are an amphibious race, equally at
home on land or under water. Their fish-like heads
belie cunning and intelligence, and the scales that
cover their humanoid bodies are like armour plating.
You can inflict only « sTAMINA point of damage on
them (unless you use LUCK too) in each Attack Round
that you win, The male wields a trident, while the
female advances tossing a coral-handled dagger from
one hand to the other. In the narrow confines of your

uae

”
x,

st * cabin, they have to approach one at a time.
5
a i SKILL STAMINA
PELAGINE 7 8
PELAGINETTE 6 5

If you win, you decide to stay awake for the rest of
the night. In the morning, will you leave Arion to seek
out Telessa’s kidnappers (turn to 200) or wil! you
remain in the city for a while longer (turn to 117)?

389
They approach cautiously, glancing warily at your
sheathed sword. You think to yourself that there must
come a time when the odds will be in your favour, so
you let them blindfold you, truss you up and haul you
off to their village, some kilometres away. This cluster

399-391

of about thirty huts occupies the end of a ravine which
is accessible only through a narrow pass and so is easy
to defend. As soon as you enter the village, your
blindfold is removed and you are surrounded by a
crowd of curious women and children. They chatter
away in a nasal language you have never heard before
The men drag you to a stout pole in the middle of the
village square and tie you to it. Although you are still
fully equipped, you are very securely tied up. As day
gives way to night, a large bonfire is lit near you.
People disperse to their evening meals, leaving only
two men to stand guard over you, and you see the
elders of the village go off into a large hut near by.
Will you take this opportunity to try to escape (tum
to 316) or will you wait (turn to 160)?

390

As you step forward to land your cowardly blow, one
of Fang-zen’s companions trips you up, while another
stamps on your hand (deduct 1 skiLL point) and a
third clubs you on the head (deduct 2 STAMINA
points). When you regain consciousness, an entirely
different group of people are seated at the table, and
Fang-zen is nowhere to be seen. You stagger out of
the tavern, recking of the stale beer with which the
floor was awash, You can now either head west out of
Arion (turn to 200) or go to another tavern (turn to
222).

391
You have disturbed the horror which has made the

ruins its home — and which is the cause of all the

392-393

skeletons on the hillside. Once the chief servant of
Arachnos, it grew too strong, so Arachnos posted it
out here to guard the borders of his domain. But it has
grown fat and lazy, and now it hates to have its rest
disturbed. The Tantaflex uncoils its tentacles and oozes
out of the basement towards where you are rummaging
through a cupboard. A slight sucking noise alerts you,
and you tum around to confront a creature out of
your worst nightmares. Tentacles sprout from what
should be its shoulders, and webbed feet squelch with
mud from the basement pool. Piercing eyes glare at
you from above a beak-like mouth. The tattered rem-
nants of others’ clothing cling to its body, and it is
surrounded by the stench of its hoard of rotting flesh
By the time you turn from your looting, it has blocked
the exits with its tentacles, so you will have to fight.

TANTAFLEX SKILL 10 STAMINA 12

In the unlikely event that you win and gain your
freedom out of the farmhouse, you can either head north
up the slope at the end of the valley (turn to 263) or turn
back and make your way southwards (tum to 355).

392

The guard checks, but no one knows of anyone with
that name, and there’s no one resembling your vague
description in the bar where you send the guards, You
decide to turn in for the night; turn to 388.

393
You peer into empty windows as you walk along, but

there is nothing of interest to be seen; even the

Pn eeeeeeerC GTi
394-395

furniture has long ago rotted away to matchwood
Just dank stones remain, blackened by age and lichen,
and streaked with dripping ‘moisture. Some of the
houses are still almost intact but the majority have
completely collapsed. One semi-ruin was evidently
once a building of some grandeur, perhaps the town
hall. You duck inside, but it is as empty and gloomy as
everywhere else. All the same, will you explore it
(turn to $5) or carry on down the street (turn to 219)?

' 394
The first rule when dealing with creatures of Evil is never

to trust them, not even for a moment. Frankly, it’s
astonishing that you have survived as many adventures
as you claim. Otus will return with the princess all right —
but she'll be in tiny pieces. You have failed in your quest.

395
Roll one dice. If you roll an even number, turn to 286;
if you roll an odd number, turn to 257.

396-398

396

Otus fails to recognize you from your earlier meeting.
He demands your pass. Will you present a moon
symbol (turn to 370), an A-medallion (tum to 66) or
an arrow (tum to 103)? If you have none of these,
your deception is exposed and the giants refuse to
let you through — in which case, your adventure is
over,

397
Luckily for you, the narrow passage impedes the

Ogre. He can only swing his axe overhead or prod at
you with its spiked tip. So his ski1x score is Jess than
it would otherwise have been

OGRE SKILL 7

If you win, you quickly search his body but find only
1 Gold Piece. The axe is too heavy for you to take.
You return to the front of the mansion, No one is
sting in the gatehouse at the far side of the wide
courtyard as you turn the handle of the front door
and it opens noiselessly on well-oiled hinges. Turn

to 197

STAMINA 10

398

You find a perch halfway up the inside of the trunk
where you can sit and be dry. You are exhausted, and
you doze off. You dream of a time when the marsh
was a vast inland sea, thriving with ships of trade, fair
towns and joyful people. Restore 1 Luck point and 2
STAMINA Points, When you wake up, you can continue
on your way by turning to either 154 or 99

OOOO

399-400

399
Before you have been travelling for more than an

hour, the mists come down to surround you. They
are so impenetrable that before long you are com-
pletely lost. Is that patch of mist thicker than the rest?
You strain your eyes, but soon it dawns on you that
you are faced by a Mist Demon, wielding a sceptre
of adamantine ice

MIST DEMON SKILL 7 STAMINA ©

If you win, you blunder on, hopelessly lost, for hour
after hour. Once you nearly fall over a cliff, and once
you have to pull yourself back by your fingertips as
you dangle over a crevasse. Eventually, however, the
mist clears as suddenly as it appeared. Turn to 379.

400
The dagger held at your throat cuts deep. Your
adventure ends here

Also in Fighting Fantasy

FIGHTING FANTASY
The Introductory Role-playing Game
Steve Jackson

Thrilling adventures of sword and sorcery come to life in the Fight-
ing Fantasy Gamebooks, where the reader is the hero, dicing with
death and demons in search of villains, treasure or freedom, Now
YOU can create your own Fighting Fantasy adventures and send
your friends off on dangerous missions! In this clearly written hand-
book there are hints on devising combats, monsters to use, tricks
and tactics, as well as two mini-adventures

THE RIDDLING REAVER

Sfeve Jackson

Four Fighting Fantasy episodes to be played as separate adventures
or as stages in an epic adventure, The Riddling Reaver is a rival
worthy of the most darmg adventurers His mind ts mscrutable —
but there is no doubt about the chaos he plans to unleash on the
world He must be stopped, despite the hazards of the task!

A follow-up to Fighting Fantasy: The Introductory Role-playing Game,
it contains mstructions and scenarios so that you can conjure up
adventures for your friends and send them on their most dangerous
and puzzling mission yet
