FIGHTING FANTASY BOOKS

Over 14 million copies sold worldwide! |

Break loose the Knights of Doom

For years the brave Knights Templar of the Demon,
keep have kept the pence in Ruddlestone But now
an ancient evil has reawakened in the land: the sor
cerer Belwaroth has returned from the dead and will
use his powers to bring chaos and terror to this
peaectul kingdom.

To erstire his plans succeed, the ¢vil sorcerer has
enlisted the services of the Kiighis of Doom One
heroic knight — YOU! — must creep through a land
plunged into war, penetrate the enemy lines and
overcome the deadliest foe of them all!

FIGHTING FANTASY ~ THE WORLD'S MOS’)
POPULAR ADVENTURE GAMEBOOK SERI

Cover Hiusttation by Tuay Hough

PUFFIN

Uz £3.00
AUST. 238.85
|1ecemmoneed |
CAN 56.00

Puffin Books

KNIGHTS OF DOOM

For years the brave Knights Templar of the Demonkeep and the
Citadel have kept the peace in Ruddlestone, protecting it from
the constant ravages of Orcs and Beast Men, But now an ancient
evil has reawakened in the land. The sorcerer Belgaroth has
teturned from the dead to reclaim his throne at Caer Skaal. His
aim is simple: he will settle for nothing less than total dominion
of Ruddlestone. His fanatical Knights of Doom will ensure that
his evil plans do not fail. One heroic knight — YOU ~ must sneak
through a land plunged into war, penetrate the teeming enemy
lines and overcome the deadliest foe of them all.

Two dice, a pencil and an eraser are al] you need to embark on
this awesome adventure, which comes complete with its own
elaborate combat system and a score sheet to record your
progress. Uncountable dangers lie ahead and your success is
anything but certain. it’s up to YOU to dedde which route to
follow, which dangers to nsk and which foes to fight. The future
of Ruddlestone is in your hands!

Fighting Fantasy Gamebooks

1 THE WARLOCK OF FIRETOP 29. MIDNIGHT ROGUE
MOUNTAIN 30 CHASMS OF MALICE
2 THE CITADEL OF CHAOS 3x BATTLEBLADE WARRIOR
3. THE FOREST OF DOOM 32, SLAVES OF THE ABYSS
4 STARSHIP TRAVELLER 33 SKY LORD
5 CITY OF THIEVES 34 STEALER OF SOULS
6 DEATHTRAP DUNGEON 35 DAGGERS OF DARKNESS
7 ISLAND OF THE LIZARD KING = 36. ARMIES OF DEATH
& SCORPION SWAMP 37 PORTAL OF EVIL
a CAVERNS OF THE SNOW 38 VAULT OF THE VAMPIRE
WITCH 39 FANGS OF FURY
zo HOUSE OF HELL 40. DEAD OF NIGHT
it. TALISMAN OF DEATH 41 MASTER OF CHAOS
zz SPACE ASSASSIN 42 BLACK VEIN PROPHECY
15. FREEWAY FIGHTER 43 KEEP OF THE LICH-LORD
14. TEMPLE OF TERROR 44. LEGEND OF THE SHADOW
15. THE RINGS OF KETHER WARRIORS
16, SEAS OF BLOOD 45 SPECTRAL STALKERS
17 APPOINTMENT WITH FEAR, 46. TOWER OF DESTRUCTION
18 REBEL PLANET 47. THE CRIMSON TIDE
1g DEMONS OF THE DEEP 48 MOONRUNNER
20. SWORD OF THE SAMURAI 49 SIEGE OF SARDATH
21 TRIAL OF CHAMPIONS 50, RETURN TO FIRETOP
22 ROBOT COMMANDO MOUNTAIN
23. MASKS OF MAYHEM 52, ISLAND OF THE UNDEAD
24 CREATURE OF HAVOC 52, NIGHT DRAGON
25 BENEATH NIGHTMARE 53 SPELLBREAKER
CASTLE 54 LEGEND OF ZAGOR
26 CRYPT OF THE SORCERER 55. DEATHMOOR

27 STAR STRIDER
28. PHANTOMS OF FEAR

Steve Jackson’s SORCERY!

1, THE SHAMUTANTI HILLS

2 KHARE—-CITYPORT OF TRAPS
3, THE SEVEN SERPENTS

4. THE CROWN OF KINGS

FIGHTING FANTASY -— The Introductory Role-playing Game
THE RIDDLING REAVER — Four Thriling Adventures

Fighting Fantasy Novels

THE TROLLTOOTH WARS — Chaos Invades Allansia
DEMONSTEALER — Chadda Darkmane Retums
SHADOWMASTER — Chadda Darkmane and Death

The Advanced Fighting Fantasy System

OUT OF THE PIT — Fighting Fantasy Monsters

TITAN — The Fighting Fantasy World

DUNGEONEER — An Introduction to the World of Role-playing Games
BLACKSAND! — More Advanced Fighting Fantasy

Steve Jackson and Ian Livingstone

present

nights of Doom

Jonathan Green
Illustrated by Tony Hough

PUFFIN BOOKS

Fighting Fantasy Gamebooks
THE WARLOCK OF FIRETOP 29. MIDNIGHT ROGUE

-

MOUNTAIN 30. CHASMS OF MALICE
2 THE CITADEL OF CHAOS 31. BATTLEBLADE WARRIOR
3 THE FOREST OF DOOM 3z. SLAVES OF THE ABYSS
4 STARSHIP TRAVELLER 33 SKY LORD
3 CITY OF THIEVES 34. STEALER OF SOULS
o DEATHTRAP DUNGEON 35 DAGGERS OF DARKNESS
3 ISLAND OF THE LIZARD KING = 36. ARMJES OF DEATH
8 SCORPION SWAMP 37 PORTAL OF EVIL
9. CAVERNS OF THE SNOW 38 VAULT OF THE VAMPIRE
WITCH 39. FANGS OF FURY
1o, HOUSE OF HELL 4c. DEAD OF NIGHT
11 TALISMAN OF DEATH 41 MASTER OF CHAOS
1z SPACE ASSASSIN 42, BLACK VEIN PROPHECY
13, FREEWAY FIGHTER 43 KEEP OF THE LICH-LORD
14 TEMPLE OF TERROR 44 LEGEND OF THE SHADOW
15 THE RINGS OF KETHER WARRIORS
16, SEAS OF BLOOD 45 SPECTRAL STALKERS
17, APPOINTMENT WITH FEAR 46. TOWER OF DESTRUCTION
14, REBEL PLANET 47. THE CRIMSON TIDE
19. DEMONS OF THE DEEP 48. MOONRUNNER
20. SWORD OF THE SAMURAI 49. SIEGE OF SARDATH
21 TRIAL OF CHAMPIONS 50, RETURN TO FIRETOP
22, ROBOT COMMANDO MOUNTAIN
23 MASKS OF MAYHEM 51. ISLAND OF THE UNDEAD
24, CREATURE OF HAVOC 52, NIGHT DRAGON
25 BENEATH NIGHTMARE 53. SPELLBREAKER
CASTLE 54. LEGEND OF ZAGOR
26, CRYPT OF THE SORCERER 55 DEATHMOOR

27 STAR STRIDER
28, PHANTOMS OF FEAR

Steve Jackyon’s SORCERY!

2, THE SHAMUTANTI HILLS

z KHARE - CITYPORT OF TRAPS
3 THE SEVEN SERPENTS

4 THE CROWN OF KINGS

FIGHTING FANTASY — The Introductory Role-playing Game
THE RIDDLING REAVER — Four Thrilling Adventures

Fighting Fantasy Novels

THE TROLLTQOTH WARS — Chaos Invades Allansia
DEMONSTEALER — Chadda Darkmane Returns
SHADOWMASTER — Chadda Darkmane and Death

The Advanced Fighting Fantasy System

OUT OF THE PIT ~ Fighting Fantasy Monsters

TITAN — The Fightmng Fantasy World

DUNGEONEER — An Introduction to the World of Role-playmg Games
BLACKSAND! — More Advanced Fighting Fantasy

Steve Jackson and Ian Livingstone

present

ights of Doom

Jonathan Green
Illustrated by Tony Hough

PUFFIN BOOKS

PUFFIN BOOKS

Published by the Penguin Group
Penguin Books Ltd, 27 Wrights Lane, London w8 512, England
Penguin Books USA Inc, 375 Hudson Strect, New York New York 10014, USA
Penguin Books Australia Ltd, Ringwood, Victoria, Australia
Penguin Books Canada Ltd, 10 Alcorn Avenue, Toronto, Ontario, Canada m4v 32
Penguin Books (NZ) Ld, 182-190 Wawrau Road, Auckland 10, New Zealand

Penguin Books Ltd, Registered Offices: Harmondsworth, Middlesex, England

First published 1994
I3579 106642

Concept copyright © Steve Jackson and lan Livingstone
Text copynght {C} Jonathan Green, 1904
Nlustrations copyright (©) Tony Hough, 1994
Map copyright (C) Jonathan Green, 1904
All rights reserved

The moral right of the author has been asserted

Filmset by Datix International Linuted, Bungay, Suffolk
Printed in England by Clays Ltd, St Ives ple
Filmset in 12/13 pt Monophoto Palatino

Except in the United States of America, this book is sold subject
to the condition that it shall not, by way of rade or otherwise, be lent,
re-sold, hired out, or otherwise circulated without the publisher's
prior consent in any form of binding or cover other than that in
which it is published and without a similar condition including this
condition bemg imposed on the subsequent purchaser

CONTENTS

Introduction
7

Adventure Sheet
20

Background
22

Knights of Doom
27

For the spellbreakers

INTRODUCTION

It has taken several years for you to become a member
of the holy order of the Templar Knights of Telak the
Swordbearer, in the northern kingdom of Ruddlestone.
After your initial training as a Warrior-Priest at the
Citadel, you served in the Demonkeep Outpost on the
border with war-like Brice. There you rose swiftly
through the ranks, undertaking many hazardous mis-
sions into enemy territory and becoming renowned
not only for your fighting prowess but also for your
mastery of the arcane secrets taught by your order,
achieved through long hours of study. In time, you
were invited to return to the Citadel to continue your
training and studies in order to become one of the
elite Templar Knights. There you swore the Oath of
the Templars: to strive to wipe out Evil and Chaos
wherever they may be found and always to uphold
the honour of your order

Since that time, you have faced many foes and com-
pleted many dangerous quests to the benefit of your
country, overcoming seemingly impossible odds by
using your heightened warrior’s skills and your mystic
priestly powers, You have become one of the most
trusted and respected of your order, having recently
returned from leading a force against a horde of Orcs
and Beast Men whom you succeeded in driving back
into the mountains.

“J
Before embarking on your latest adventure, you must
first discover your own strengths and weaknesses.
You use dice to determine your initial scores. On
pages 20-21 there is an Adventure Sheet which you
may use to record the details of your adventure. On it
you will find boxes for recording the scores of your
attributes. You are advised either to record your scores
on the Adventure Sheet in pencil or to make photocopies
of the sheet for use in future adventures.

Skill, Stamina and Luck

Roll one dice. Add 6 to the number rolled, then enter
this total in the sx1LL box on the Adventure Sheet.

Roll two dice. Add 12 to the number rolled, then enter
this total in the sTAMINA box

Roll one dice. Add 6 to the number rolled, then enter
this total in the tuck box.

For reasons that will be explained below, your scores
will change constantly during the adventure. You
must keep an accurate record of these scores, and for
this reason you are advised to write small in the boxes
or to keep an eraser handy. But never rub out your
Initial scores. Although you may be awarded additional
SKILL, STAMINA and Luck points, their totals may
never exceed their Initial scores, except on those very
rare occasions when the text specifically tells you so

Your skiLt reflects your expertise in combat, your
dexterity and agility. Your sTAMINA score is a meas-
ure of how healthy and physically fit you are. Your

8

LUCK score indicates how lucky you are. In all these
cases, the higher the score, the better!

Battles

During your adventure you will often encounter hostile
creatures which will attack you, and you yourself may
choose to draw your weapon against an enemy you
chance across. In some situations you may be given
special options allowing you to deal with the encounter
in an unusual manner, but in most cases you will have
to resolve battles as described below.

Enter your opponent's skILL and STAMINA scores in
the first empty Encounter Box on your Adventure
Sheet. You should also make a note of any special
abilities or instructions that are unique to that particular
opponent. Then follow this sequence:

1. Roll both dice for your opponent, Add its skILL
score to the total rolled, to find its Attack Strength.

2. Roll both dice for yourself, then add your current
SKILL score to find your Attack Strength.

3. If your Attack Strength is higher than your oppo-
nent’s, you have wounded it: proceed to step 4. If
your opponent's Attack Strength is higher than
yours, it has wounded you: proceed to step s. If
both Attack Strength totals are the same, you have
avoided or parried each other's blows: start a new
Attack Round from step 1, above.

4. You have wounded your opponent, so subtract 2

9

points from its STAMINA score. You may use LUCK
here to do additiona] damage (see below). Proceed
to step 6

5. Your opponent has wounded you, so subtract 2
points from your STAMINA score. You may use
Luck to reduce the loss of sTAMINA (see below).

6. Begin the next Attack Round, starting again at step
1. This sequence continues until the stAMINA score
of either you or your opponent reaches zero, which
means death. If your opponent dies, you are free to
continue with your adventure. If you die, your
adventure ends and you must begin all over again
by creating a new character.

Fighting More Than One Opponent

In some situations you may find yourself facing more
than one person or creature in combat. Sometimes you
will treat them as a single opponent; at other times
you will be able to fight each in turn; and then again,
at other times you will have to fight them all at the
same time! If they are treated as a single opponent, the
combat is resolved normally. When you are instructed
to fight your opponents one at a time, the combat is
again resolved normally — except that, once you defeat
an enemy, the next steps forward to fight you! When
you find yourself under attack from more than one
opponent at the same time, each adversary will make a
separate attack on you in the course of each Attack
Round, but you can choose which one to fight. Attack
your chosen target as in a normal battle. Against any

10

additional opponents you throw for Attack Strengths
in the usual way. If your Attack Strength is greater
than your opponent's, in this instance you will not
inflict any damage; you can regard it as having parried
an incoming blow. If your Attack Strength is lower
than your adversary’s, however, you will be wounded
in the usual way. Of course, you will have to settle
the outcome against each additional adversary sepa-
rately,

Luck

At various times during your adventure, either in
battle or when you find yourself in another situation
in which you could be either Lucky or Unlucky (details
of these are given in the relevant paragraphs), you
may use LUCK to make the outcome more favourable
to you. But beware! Using Luck is a risky business
and, if you are Unlucky, the results could be disas-
trous.

The procedure for Testing your Luck works as follows:
toll two dice. If the number rolled is less than or
equal to your current LUCK score, you will have
been Lucky and the outcome will go in your favour.
If the number rolled is higher than your current Luck
score, you will have been Unlucky and will be penal-
ized.

Each time you Test your Luck, you must subtract 1
point from your current LUCK score, Thus you will
soon realize that, the more you rely on your Luck, the
more risky this procedure becomes.

I1
Using Luck in Battles

From time to time you will be told to Test your Luck,
and you will then lear the consequences of being
Lucky or Unlucky. However, in battles you always
have the option of using your Luck, either to inflict
more serious damage on an opponent you have just
wounded or to minimize the effects of a wound you
have just received.

If you have just wounded an opponent, you may Test
your Luck, as described above. If you are Lucky, you
have inflicted a severe wound; deduct 2 extra points
from your opponent’s STAMINA score. If you are
Unlucky, however, your blow only scratches your
opponent; you may deduct only i point from your
opponent's sTAMINA (so that, instead of inflicting the
usual 2 points of damage, you now inflict only 1).

Whenever you yourself are wounded in combat, you
may Test your Luck to try to minimize the wound. If
you are Lucky, your opponent's blow only grazes you;
deduct just 1 point from your own sTAMINA. If you
are Unlucky, your wound is a serious one and you
must deduct 1 extra sTAMINA point (i.e. deduct a total
of 3 points from your STAMINA).

Remember: you must subtract 1 point from your LUCK
score each time you Test your Luck.

i2

More About Your Attributes
Skill
Your SKILL score will not change much during the
course of your adventure. Occasionally a paragraph
may give instructions to increase or decrease your
SKILL score, but it may not exceed its Initial value
unless you are specifically instructed to the contrary.

At various times during your adventure, you will be
told to Test your Skill. The procedure for doing this is
exactly the same as for Testing your Luck. Roll two
dice. If the number rolled is less than or equal to your
current SKILL score; you have succeeded in your test
and the result will go in your favour. If the number
tolled is higher than your current sxkILL score, you
have failed the test and will have to suffer the conse-
quences. However, unlike Testing your Luck, you do
not have to subtract 1 point from your sxILL each
time you Test your Skill.

Stamina
Your STAMINA score will change a lot during your
adventure. It will drop as a result of wounds gained
through combat or by falling foul of traps and pitfalls,
and it will also drop after you perform any particularly
arduous task. If your STAMINA score ever falls to zero,
you have been killed and should stop reading the book
immediately. Brave adventurers who wish to pursue their
quest must rol] up a new character and start all over again.

You can restore lost sTAMiNA by eating meals or
Provisions. You start the game without any Provisions,

13

LL LL CC IE _—
but during your adventure you will be able to obtain
meals. You must keep track on your Adventure Sheet of
how many meals’ worth of Provisions you have left.
Each time you eat a meal, you may restore up to 4
points of stAMINA, but at the same time you must
remember to deduct 1 meal from your stock of Provi-
sions. You may pause to eat Provisions at any time,
except when you are engaged in a battle.

Luck
Additions to your LUCK score may be awarded in the
adventure when you have been particularly lucky or
have created your own luck by some action, Details
are given, where appropriate, in the relevant part of
the book. Remember that, as with skitt and sTAMINA,
your LUCK score may never exceed its Initiq] value

Special Skills

As part of your training as a Templar Knight, you have
acquired certain Special Skills appropriate to both a
warrior and a priest, and these have proved invaluable
on many a perilous adventure. Choose four Special
Skills from the list below and make a note of them in
the Special Skills box on your Adventure Sheet. You
must have at least one Warrior Skill and one Priest Skill.

Warrior Skills
Battle Tactics
As well as being a highly skilled warrior yourself, you

are also used to commanding dozens of soldiers in

tab

battle. With your superior experience in the art of
warfare, a force led by you is all but unbeatable.

Ride

You are an expert horseman, able to remain in the
saddle and guide your steed in even the most adverse
conditions. This skill means that you are also likely to
be able to ride other mounts, even unlikely and unfamil-
lar ones.

Target

This skill allows you to use weapons that are thrown
or fired (such as bows, spears and throwing-knives)
with greater accuracy than normal,

Tracking

As long as there is a trail to follow, you can track
humanoid or beast anywhere. Your success in tracking
depends on the nature of the trail and how old it is.

Weapon

You are not only an expert swordsman, you have also
specialized in the use of another weapon in close
combat, Choose one weapon from the following list
and record it on your Adventure Sheet: axe, lance, mace.
spear.

Priest Skills
Arcane Lore

Having spent many hours poring over ancient tomes,
you are more knowledgeable than most conceming

{5

the history and legends of Ruddlestone, and you
understand many of the secret symbols and other
mysteries of your order.

Banish Spirit

By brandishing holy symbols and using certain esoteric
phrases, you are able to free one ghostly undead spirit
from its earthly constraints at a time,

Commune

Through hours of concentrated meditation you have
heightened your mystical powers so that you are able
to pick up the psychic vibrations given off by the
inhabitants of the Spirit Werld and, sometimes, beings
from higher planes.

Holy Strike

You are able to hit evil creatures such as undead and
Demons with a blast of holy power that will drain
their evil energies. You may make only one strike at a
time.

16

Honour

As a Knight of Telak you are bound by HoNouR.
Your HONOUR is a measure of your unselfishness,
your sense of duty and allegiance to the path of
Goodness, At the start of your adventure your
HONOUR score is 6 (you do not need to roll dice to
discover this). You may increase your HONOUR score
by undertaking heroic deeds and destroying especially
evil opponents. However, you can also lose HONOUR
points by acting in an evil or selfish way that is more
benefiting to your enemies, or by breaking the Oath
of the Templars. Keep track of your HONOUR in the
appropriate box on your Adventure Sheet and do all
you can not to dishonour yourself or your order

Time
As you pursue your quest, it is important that you keep
track of the passage of time. Regularly throughout the
adventure, whenever a day draws to an end, you will
be instructed to add 1 day to the Time Elapsed. This

should be done in the Time Elapsed box which you
will find on your Adventure Sheet.

Equipment

You start your adventure with the possessions and
uniform you would expect of a Knight of Telak: you
are dressed in a fine chainmail coat and a white tunic
with the design of a golden sword embroidered on it,
and you carry a magic sword, a weapon made of the

17

finest steel and cast with a mystical enchantment. This
weapon does not give you any bonus to your Attack
Strength but it will harm the undead and Demons
because of its holy nature. You travel through
the kingdom of Ruddlestone on your steed Firemane,
a dark roan with a blazing red mane. As yet you
do not have a backpack or any Provisions or Gold
Pieces.

You should record your magic sword in the Weapon
box on your Adventure Sheet; everything else goes in
the Equipment box. During the adventure you may
only ever carry and use one weapon at a time. How-
ever, for as long as you have your horse Firemane
with you, you may also carry another weapon on his
saddle. If you do this, make a note of it in the
Equipment box. If you lose a weapon and Firemane is
still carrying the other, then you may use this one
However, you may do this only if Firemane is with
you at the time. For example, if you lose your sword
in a dungeon, until you get out of that dungeon (or
you find another weapon there) you must carry on
weaponless. While you are fighting without a weapon,
you must reduce your Attack Strength by z points. If
you ever want to change a weapon during combat and
are in a position to do this, you must forfeit one
Attack Round and suffer the consequences. Also, when-
ever you acquire a weapon (or armour) you should
record on the Adventure Sheet any bonuses that go
with it and whether or not it is magical,

18

SPECIAL
SKILLS

Battle Tactics

Ride

Target

STAMINA
Tritial
Stamina=

tracking

Weapon

Arcane tore

Banish Spirit

Cunumnure

Holy Strike

EQUIPMENT AND NOTES

MONSTER ENCOUNTER BOXES

<r

‘

LUCK Skill=
Inttial
Luck= Sfaming=

TIME ELAPSED |

WEAPON

i GOLD PIECES

Skiif=
Stamina=
aes eae wel
BSkill= |
Staming=

Skil=

Stamita=

Skill=

Stamina=

Skills

Stantina=

Skill=

Stamina=

Skill=

Stamina=

Skill=

Staminag=

Skiif=

Stamina=

Skilf=

Stamina=

Skatl=

Staminas

BACKGROUND

‘The kingdom is sick and | am mortally ill’ Gasps of
dismay come from the crowd; the leaders of all the
major religious and secular orders of Ruddlestone are
assembled here in the hal] that is bedecked with the
banners of those orders. You are standing in front of
the king’s ornately carved oak throne. You are sud-
denly aware how weak and tired King Rannor looks.
Having regained his breath, the king speaks again:
‘My physicians tell me that I am suffering from no
ordinary illness, and that there is only one cure. The
land and the king are one and, because there is chaos
in the land, | am dying. If the kingdom is to survive,
then the source of this disruption must be destroyed,
for without a true king the land itself will die’

‘What is the source of this chaos?’ you ask,

Aranandus, the court wizard and adviser to the king,
answers your question. ‘Several weeks ago, during a
terrible storm over the Banarask Hills, a gateway
opened between our world and the Spirit Planes,
centred upon the ruins of the fortress of Caer Skaal.
My fellow sorcerers and ] detected the disturbance it
was causing on the magical ether, and for kilometres
around people saw a great, swirling vortex form amidst
the boiling storm-clouds. Eye-witness accounts say that
while the portal remained open, terrible screaming
spirits could be seen flying across the night sky

22

throughout the land. It was a truly terrifying spectacle
to behold. However, before the vortex closed again,
something else was detected escaping from the Ethereal
Plane — something of the utmost evil that exuded
corruption, Recently reports have been coming from
the south concerning a band of dark warriors who are
terrorizing the countryside and carrying banners that
bear the motif of a metal gauntlet holding a black
sword.’ You gaze at the old wizard in horror. ‘Yes,’ he
says gravely. ‘the arms of the Chaos Knights of Caer
Skaal.’

Every Templar knows about that terrible period in
Ruddlestone’s history. One hundred years ago, the
king and head of your order at that time, Chivalras IX,
had a brother, Belgaroth, who was also one of the
Knights of Telak. But Belgaroth was consumed with
jealousy for his brother and desired to be king himself
Although Chivalras was in truth a worthy monarch,
Belgaroth considered him a weak king and thought
that Ruddlestone should be ruled with an iron fist. As
the years passed, Belgaroth spent more and more time
away from the Citadel at his own castle on the edge of
the Banarask Hills. During that time, he became cor-
rupted by his own hatred and jealousy, so that eventu-
ally he rejected Telak and tumed to worshipping the
Dark Gods of Chaos, that they might grant him the
power to destroy Chivalras. As part of his service to
his dark masters, Belgaroth founded an order of Chaos
Knights to lead his hordes of evil against the Citadel
However, Chivalras’s spies uncovered Belgaroth’s
plans, and so the Crusade against Chaos began. The

23

nd

war raged on for several months until the Knights of
Telak at last stood before Belgaroth’'s castle, the fortress
of Caer Skaal, and besieged it. Within two weeks the
battle was won and the Chaos Knights were no more.
From that time, the ghost-haunted ruins of Caer Skaal

were left to the inhabitants of those wild lands.

‘Belgaroth must have returned from the Lands of the
Dead and resurrected his dark order,’ Aranandus contin-
ues, ‘His servants strive for disruption and confusion
so that Chaos may tighten its grip upon our world.
There is talk of witchcraft in the north; the dead are
rising from their graves, and there have been many
dark portents seen across the land There are even
rumours that in places the ancient Forest of Lein has
begun to wither and die. If the land, and the king, are
to be saved, then this chaos must be stopped. The
Knights of Caer Skaal must be destroyed.’

Addressing you directly, the king takes up the story.
‘My advisers tell me that a single skilled warrior
would have greater success in this quest than a large
torce, as a lone knight will be able to travel faster
and will find it easier to penetrate the enemy’s lines
without being detected, We need to strike as quickly
as possible, and to prepare an army would take
several days,” King Rannor adds. ‘You have been
chosen to be that knight, for you are one of the
greatest of all the Knights of Telak. Your courage,
your prowess in battle, and your command of the
mystic powers taught by your order are known of
throughout the kingdom. You will accept the quest,
of course?’

‘Yes, my liege,’ you reply, ‘If my kingdom is in danger
then I must do all I can to stop these Knights of
Chaos.’

‘Good,’ says the king, with a sigh of relief. ‘You must
head south for Caer Skaal and try to stop this evil; this
will aiso give us time to prepare a force, were you to
fail in your mission. However, | pray that you do not:
should Belgaroth seek his revenge on the royal line of
Chivatras, then all Ruddlestone may be doomed!"

You bow to King Rannor and tum to leave the
audience chamber. As you do so, the large double
doors al the far end of the hall burst open and a chill
gust of wind blows through the chamber. From beyond
the open portal you can hear the clip-clop of a horse's
hoofs on the fagstones. The noise draws closer until it
sounds as if it was inside the hall, but you can see
nothing. Then it stops and, at the same moment, the
temperature in the hal! drops. As you watch, a phospho-
rescent green glow begins to appear in front of you.
Something is materializing in the audience chamber.
Something not of this world .. .

Tum to paragraph 1.

7

1-4

1

The phosphorescence rapidly increases in size, making
a recognizable shape. Directly in front of you a ghostly
armoured knight forms, surrounded by an eerie green
glow and mounted on a phantom steed. Inside the
helmet the knight's face is that of a fleshless skull, its
empty eye-sockets staring down at you. The ghost
points at you with its sword; its jaw drops open and
the dead knight lets out a ghastly moan: ‘Beware,
mortals. Bewarel’ Before you can react, the horse rears
up on its hind legs and tries to crush you beneath its
hoofs. Test your Luck. If you are Lucky, turn to 59. IF
you are Unlucky, turn to 145.

2
If you have taken more than six days to get this far,
turn to 15g. If you have taken six days or less, tum
to 338.

3
As the man flees, he drops several spiked metal balls
in Firernane’s path. Firemane shies and rears up to
avoid galloping into the deadly calthrops. If you have
the Ride Special Skill, turn to 156. If you do not, Test
your Skill, If you are successful, turn to 156; if you fail,
turn to 170.

4
Eventually your opponent falls. You have not even
reached the door when the pressure of the steam
inside the boiler becomes too great and the iron
chamber explodes ~ with cataclysmic effect. The
5-6

Juggernaut is blown apart by the blast, as are you.
Your adventure ends here,

5

The people of Assart bolt their doors and barricade
themselves inside their homes as you set off alone on
Firemane, going west towards Myrton. Dusk is falling
as you reach the derelict ruins lying under a thick pall
of mist. The air is heavy with the smell of death and
you can hear the tolling of a bell. Suddenly a great
crowd appears out of the mist, blocking the way to
Myrton. The undead villagers stumble towards you,
moaning and waving farm tools threateningly in your
direction. You have no choice but to charge these
undead ranks in an attempt to break through their
lines. Rol] two dice to see how many of the undead
strike you. If you have the Holy Strike Special Skill you
may reduce this number by 2, and you can also do this
if you have a lance. For every strike you sustain, lose 2
STAMINA points, If you survive running this gauntlet,
the undead ignore you and instead make for Assart,
leaving you to go after the Necromancer. Turn to 51.

6
The spell-locked door opens and you gaze into what
was obviously once a wizard’s laboratory. You are at
the top of a staircase that winds round the wall of the
circular chamber to floor level. The room is full of
tables and benches laden with bizarre pieces of equip-
ment and scientific apparatus. Around the top of the
circular wall have been painted pictures of strange
mythological creatures, and the domed ceiling is a

7

deep blue, inset with sparkling gems to form a map of
the heavens. Slumped over a book on a desk is a
skeleton, wearing a blue robe embroidered with stars
and moons. As you descend the staircase, the skeleton
remains motionless so you decide to take a closer look
at the book. The skeleton is that of Savant, a good
wizard in the service of Belgaroth before the Dread
Lord was corrupted by his own jealousy to the service
of Chaos. When his master turned from the path of
goodness and truth, Savant hid himself away and
began work on finding a way to stop Belgaroth. What
he discovered lies here before you. However, it is
written in a strange magical short-hand. [f you have
the Arcane Lore Special Skill, turn to 70. If you haven't,
you must Test your Luck. If you are Lucky, turn to 7o;
if you are Unlucky, turn to 189

7

Already you know that the village of Assart is doomed.
With the Necromancer still alive, his army of undead
will continue to grow until it is unstoppable. You have
not even left the graveyard when you are surrounded
by a horde of Zombie-like creatures. You cut down
many of the evil undead, but in the end you are
overwhelmed and, once dead, you are returned to the
sepulchre to meet your new master.
8-10

8
Between the trees at the edge of the clearing, the
ground is thick with bracken. Test your Luck. If you are
Lucky, turn to 291. If you are Unlucky, tum to 216.

9
The Paladin’s Lance is the very weapon that pierced

the heart of the Hell Dragon forty years ago. It will be
an invaluable weapon if you ever have to take part in
a joust; however, it cannot be used in hand-to-hand
combat. If you are ever given the option of using the
Lance, Test your Skill, adding 2 to the number rolled if
you do not have the Lance Weapon Special Skill. If you
are successful, your opponent loses 2 sTAMINA points.
(Record the Lance in the Weapon box on your Adven-
ture Sheet.) Return to 356,

10
The Giant roars in fury at you for having avoided his
hazards. Bellowing, it swings its club at you. Drawing
your own weapon, you engage in single combat

HILL GIANT SKILL Q
If you defeat the brute, tum to 173.

STAMINA I1

11-13

11

Gripping the Elf-Spear firmly in your hand, you feel its
power flowing into your arm, strengthening your
muscles, Flinging your arm forward, you hurl Aelfgar
through the air, aiming it straight at Belgaroth’s chest.
Test your Skill, subtracting 2 from the dice roll if you
have the Target Special Skill. If you succeed, turn to
400. If you fail, turn to 144.

12
Having removed the Banshee’s tooth, do you want to
make your way back to the crone’s cave so that she
can concoct your potion (turn to 217) or will you go
elsewhere (turn to 202)?

13

Quickly you unsheathe your weapon, ready to fight
the hellspawn. Being a denizen of the Eternal Pit, the
Demonic Slayer can be harmed only by magical weap-
ons. If you do not have one, you will meet the same
fate as that of Herluin under the creature’s onslaught.
Your adversary’s claws are so sharp that they will cut
through armour and flesh alike, so any bonuses you
may have against damage will have no effect!

DEMONIC SLAYER SKILL 10

If you destroy the horror, tur to 128.

STAMINA &

14-15

14

At the top of the steps you enter a long antechamber,
at the end of which is a set of double doors made from
a dark wood, inscribed with mystical runes. However,
at this moment, the spectre of a woman is materializing
in the room. Her ragged robes and hair stream out
behind her as she flies towards you across the room,
her claw-like hands raised, screaming insanely. Upon
her head is a crown of Dragon’s teeth and the manic
look in her eyes tells you that the ghost has been
driven completely mad. The spectre is in fact that of
Belgaroth’s fiend-like queen, Morgwyn of the Dark
Tower. A servant of Shekka, goddess of witchcraft, it
was she who, during the siege of Caer Skaal, conjured
terrible creatures from the Spirit World to assail the
crusaders’ camp at night and deprive the warriors of
precious sleep. Upon hearing the news of her husband's
death on the field of battle, Morgwyn took her own
life, throwing herself from the highest turret of the
fortress. If you have the Banish Spirit Special Skill and
ce ‘4 want to use it to dispel the spectre, tum to 204.

I: . Otherwise you will have to fight Belgaroth’s queen;

% nN turn to 29

“a

"

: fu
.-
es
“! perr ewe

15
The owl suddenly launches itself from its perch and
starts to buffet you with its wings, forcing you towards
the door. Whenever you strike out at the bird, it flies
up to the ceiling, out of your reach. You try to carry
on your investigation of Herluin’s cell, but the ow!
begins screeching and continues to hamper any move
you make. You decide that you have already wasted

16-17

enough time here anyway, so you hastily leave the
cell and the wood. Turn to 49.

16

You notice that, above each archway, a rune has been
carved into the stone. From hours spent studying such
secret symbols, you can recognize all of them. Above
the southem archway is the Rune of the Swordbearer;
over the northern archway is the Rune of Enkala,
goddess of peace; and the stone above the western
archway bears the Rune of Death. Which way will you
go?

South? Tur to 361

West? Tum to 391

North? Turn to 109
17

It is early afternoon when you ride back into the
courtyard of Cleeve Manor. Lord Varen hurries out to
meet you, and when you show him the boar’s tusks he
is overjoyed. ‘At last my people will be able to live
without fear again. The Great Boar of Lein is no more.’
{Add 1 to your HONOUR score.) Lord Varen invites you
to spend another night at the manor; but you feel that, if
you leave now you should be able to reach Havalok by
nightfall, However, Varen insists on offering you some
service in return for killing the boar. Will you ask him:

If you can recruit some of his soldiers
to fight against Belgaroth’s forces? Turn to 288
If he knows anything about recent

goings-on in the forest? Tum to 158

18-20

What he knows about the Elf-Spear
Aelfgar? Tum to 206

18
These man-like creatures are Wodewose, primal spirits
af the forest itself, and from it they draw their strength.
They will not be easy to defeat, for you must fight
them together.

SKILL STAMINA
First WODEWOSE 9 7
Second WODEW OSE 9 )

If you win, the bodies of the Wodewose dry up and
turn brown. Bewildered by your encounter with these
strange creatures, you continue on your way. Tum
to 368.

19
As you and Torrin wait in tense silence, you can hear
the sounds of growling and sniffing coming from
outside the forge. The Dwarf bolts and bars the door
then begins to secure the window-shutters, Test your
Luck. If you are Lucky, turn to 310. If you are Unlucky,
tum to 375.

20
Before you even manage to draw your weapon, a dark
bolt of energy flies from the warlord’s hands and
strikes you full in the chest. It feels just as if you have
been hit with a Giant’s club. You are thrown back
across the room and slam into the wall; lose 5 sTAMINA
points. If you are still alive, turn to 162.
25

You can see that parts of the surrounding fields are
blackened and blighted. As you ride into Ennox, a
group of villagers turns to look at you with hostile
expressions on their faces. ‘So, a Templar,’ one of them
says. ‘What ‘ave we done to deserve the attentions of
the likes of you? As if things weren't bad enough with
the blight. We don’t need your sort snooping around
‘ere,’ The man’s fellows mutter their agreement. Some-
thing tells you that your presence isn’t welcome here.
You have no quarrel with these people, so will you
ride on through and leave them in peace (turn to 332),
or will you stop and argue in defence of your order
(turn to 150)?

25

Fortunately your helmet absorbs most of the force of
the blow (lose 1 STAMINA point). The crate that hits
you falls harmlessly to the floor, and you turn around
as a figure drops from an opening in the ceiling. It is a
man dressed in the garb of a labourer and wearing a
dyed green hood that covers his face completely with
just two eye-holes cut in it, In one hand the man is
holding a chain, with a spiked ball on one end of it,
With a shout he attacks you.

HOODED ATTACKER SKILL 8

Every time your opponent wins an Attack Round, roll
one dice. On a roll of 1-4, the spiked ball does the
usual 2 STAMINA points of damage. However, on a
roll of 5-6, the weapon hits you extra hard, causing 3
points of damage to your sTAMINA. If you reduce the
man’s STAMINA to 2 points or less, you can either try

STAMINA 8

26

to question him as to why he attacked you (tum to
235) or finish him off (turn to 354).

26

You step through the door into a scene of utter
devastation. The lower storey of the cell is a single
room, furnished with bookcases, a large desk and a
high-backed chair, However, several of the bookcases
have been pulled over, spilling their contents of scrolls,
ancient tomes and strange artefacts across the room.
Battles lie smashed on the floor, their precious contents
soaking into the packed earth. Lying in the middle of
the debris is Herluin the Sage, his body scored by
deep gashes that look as though they were made by
the claws of some huge creature. As you survey the
wreckage, there is the sound of beating wings, and a
tawny ow! alights on its perch near the desk and gazes
at you with large, blinking eyes. If you have the
Commune Special Skill, turn to gg. If you do not, Test
your Luck. If you are Lucky, turn to gg. If you are
Unlucky, turn to 166.

21-23

21
There are no traps hidden by the unnatural darkness
but, as you step through it, the marrow-freezing cold
drains your strength (lose 2 sTAMINA points) unless
you are carrying a shield bearing a crescent moon
which projects a glowing white barrier round you. You
soon emerge from the chilling darkness and find yourself
in a chamber faced with slabs of stone. In it stand three
large stone coffins. Lying on top of the central sarcopha-
gus is an ancient sword inscribed with interweaving
patterns. Do you want to risk taking it (tum to 231); or
will you leave the dead in peace and quit this tumulus,
passing through the pool of darkness once more, for the
loss of 2 further sTAMINA points and 1 sxILL point
unless you have the moon shield (tum to 316)?

be
The force of the blow sends you reeling, and you fall
to the floor, The mercenaries cheer and, as you climb
the steps out of the pit, Stronn explains that he could
never let his men be led into battle by anyone but the
best of warriors. Nothing you can do will persuade
Stronn to change his mind, so you decide not to waste
any more time at the Mercenaries’ Guild. Turn to 314.

23
For much of the day you ride west and south through
the Banarask Hills without seeing another soul in the
desolate terrain. It is late afternoon when you come to
the bottom of a sheer-sided incline. As you start to
climb the path to the top, a huge silhouette appears on
the horizon. Standing at the top of the incline is an

24

ugly brute, at least six metres tall. The Hill Giant is
covered in hair and is dressed in tatty animal furs,
while in its massive hands it holds a small tree as a
club. Next to it is a pile of tree-trunks. On seeing you
the Giant gives the pile a mighty kick, sending the
tree-trunks rolling down the valley, directly towards
you. The sides of the path are too steep and there is
no time for you to get out of the way of the speeding
logs, so you prepare to jump them with your mount.
Test your Skill four times, subtracting 2 from the dice
roll if you have the Ride Special Skill. If you succeed
on every roll, turn to xo. If you fail at all, turn to 88.

24
As the last Hellhound dies, dawn breaks on another
cold Close day; but at least you have survived the
night to see it (add 1 day to the Time Elapsed). The
memory of that terrible night will remain with you
for a long time, Looking across at the old Dwarf, you
see that he is bleeding from many savage wounds,
but at least is still alive, foo. You realize that you
have been fighting alongside a true veteran. Regain 2
LUCK point for surviving the demonic pack’s attack.
Having rested and tended your wounds, you lead
Firemane from the stable and continue on your quest,
but not before Torrin gives you sufficient Provisions
for 3 meals and his best wishes for the journey
ahead.

As Tormin said you would, by mid-morning you reach
the lonely village of Ennox. A number of farms and
other buildings huddle together round the village
square, in the middle of which stands a stone cross
27—28

27

Passing through another opening, you enter a small
cave. There in front of you is the Cockatrice. The
creature has the head and body of a large cockerel,
while a long snake-like tail lashes behind it. The thing
half struts and half flies towards you on large. leathery
bat-wings. The Cockatrice is a fearless carnivore and
has no qualms about taking you on! If you have read
about this monster in a bestiary or have the Arcane
Lore Special Skill, turn to go. Otherwise you will have
to fight the creature.

COCKATRICE SKILL 7 STAMINA 7

If the Cockatrice wins an Attack Round, as well as
pecking you and causing 2 STAMINA points of damage,
the creature has poisonous breath which may well
paralyse part of your body, and this could be fatal!
Roll one dice to determine what the effect is

Dice Roll Effect
1-2 Nothing happens
3 Lose 1 SKILL point
4 Lose 2 SKILL points
5 Lost 3 SKILL points
6 Death

If you manage to kill the Cockatrice and you have the
word ‘Enorc’ written on your Adventure Sheet, tum to
2241; if you haven't, turn to 168.

28
Brandishing the talisman, it is your hope that the
creature will be repelled by it. Rather than being
29

repelled, however, the manifestation seems to be at-
tracted to the amulet, Such talismans are worn by the
Darkthom’s servants and cannot be used to harm the
evil elemental spirit they worship. Black stems burst
through the floor, wrapping themselves round your
arms and legs. There is nothing you can do as, held in
the Darkthorn’s grasp, you are torn limb from limb by
the roots.

29
If you are not fighting with a magical weapon, it will
be impossible to defeat the spectre and Morgwyn will
drain the life-force from your body. If you do have a
magical weapon, you may fight on as normal. For the
first two Attack Rounds, Morgwyn will use her black
arts against you. If she wins the first Attack Round,
she will strike you with a bolt of black lightning,
causing you to lose 4 STAMINA points. [f she has the
higher Attack Strength in the second Attack Round,
she conjures phantasmal fiends to rend your flesh with

30-31

vicious teeth and claws (lose 6 sTAMINA points). After
that, she will fight on with her clawed hands, If you
have the Holy Strike Special Skill you may use this
against the spectre, causing her to lose 2 sTAMINA
points and 1 SKILL point.

MORGWYN SKILL 9

If you win, the apparition of the fiend-like sorceress
vanishes with a scream in a swirl of vapour. If the
spectre hit you at least once, roll one dice, Unless you
roll a 6, you will have to deduct 1 point from your sKitL
due to Morgwyn’s life-draining touch. Turn to 299.

STAMINA 9

30
Spurring Firemane onwards through the bracken and
undergrowth, you cross a stream and lose the track
you were following. Undeterred, you press on, hoping
to pick it up again soon. However, the further you
proceed through the forest the denser the trees
become, the canopy of branches above you letting in
less light so that an unnatural gloom pervades the
woods. Between the trees you suddenly catch sight of
something glinting in a ray of sunlight. Remembering
that time is pressing, do you want to investigate
the source of this glinting (tum to 112) or will
you continue on your way through the forest (turn

to 353)?

31
An unnatural stillness hangs over Myrton and the
whole village seems to be deserted. What could have
happened here all those years ago? Much of it is in
32

ruins, with only a few stone buildings still standing,
enveloped in fog. These include the Elders’ Meeting
House to the north-east, the village lock-up to the
south-east and a tall bell-tower, which has remained
totally intact, to the north. The tolling comes from the
bell-tower and a cloud of bats is flitting about its
eaves. You can also see an abandoned graveyard lying
to the west, on the far side of the village. Where will
you begin your search for the Necromancer?

The meeting house? Tum to 245

The lock-up? Tum to 44
The bell-tower? Turn to 195
The graveyard? Tum to 382

32
Werne tells you that the Griffin Shield used to be
granted to knights for acts of extreme loyalty and
bravery. Whenever you are carrying the shield in
battle, you may reduce an enemy’s Attack Strength by
1 point, Return to 356

33-34

33
You awaken with a start just as the first rays of dawn

are penetrating the depths of the forest. Restore 2
STAMINA points and add i day to the Time Elapsed.
But what of your adversary? Was your battle with the
knight all a dream? Looking around, you notice a
shield lying against a tree: on it is the image of a
flame, If you want to take this shield, in battle you
may reduce any opponent’s Attack Strength by 1
point. (You may carry only one shield at a time.) You
have successfully bested the Champion of the Shrine
in combat and have earned the right to finish your
journey. As you ride on, the ground gradually rises
and eventually you leave the forest. You find yourself
at the edge of a chasm which stretches as far as the
eye can see to the east and west. It is too wide even
for Firemane to leap across - but there is no need for
that, since a narrow stone bridge spans the gorge. On
the end-pillars of the bridge is engraved the badge of
the Templars: a cruciform sword inside a ring inscribed
with the Oath, Mist rises from the depths of the
chasm so that you cannot see the bottom. There is
only one way to go, and you guide Firemane on to
the bridge. Do you suffer from the Fear of Heights? If
you do, turn to 169. If you don’t, tum to 24s.

‘OF course!’ exclaims Pyritees in sudden realization.
‘The watery element is the missing ingredient. Now I
need only combine these compounds and distil the
solution they produce. It shouldn't take longer than a
week or two. Thank you, my friend. How can I repay
35

you?’ You decide you have nothing to lose in telling
the alchemist about your quest and, as you relate your
mission to him, Pyritees becomes serious. When you
mention the Elf-Spear, Aelfgar, his face lights up with
excitement. ‘I know something of that fabled weapon,’
he says, ‘I heard it in a song once, the “Ballad of Sir
Rhyaddan the Crusader”, Now how did it go?

‘Still riding through the forest old,
Elven Spear there to behold.
Valiant against the foe,

Ever onward through the land,
Never fearing Death’s cold hand’

Also, if you bought any potions from him, Pyritees
gives you back the gold you paid for them. Thanking
Pyritees for his clue to the whereabouts of Aelfgar,
you leave his laboratory. Now, will you try to recruit
a small army (tum to 139) or leave Havalok (tum

to 314)?

35
Suddenly, Lord Varen’s soldiers tum on your other

soldiers, siding with the Beast Men. If they are the

36

only warriors of which your army is composed, you
soon fall, greatly outnumbered. However, if you have
other allies, you defend yourself against the traitorous
soldiers, engaging one in combat,

SOLDIER

If the battle lasts for more than four Attack Rounds,
turn to 207. If you win in four Attack Rounds or less,
turn to 302.

SKILL 7 STAMINA 7

56
You both peer into the pool while the Mistress passes
her hands backwards and forwards over its surface.
Suddenly the water grows cloudy and the Mistress
says, ‘Reveal!’ An image begins to form in the pool. It
seems to be the mins of a castle but, as quickly as it
appeared, the image starts to fade. ‘Reveal,’ the woman
says again, but now all you can make out in the water
is a swirling mist. Then you see it. At first it is only a
speck moving among the drifting clouds, but as it gets
nearer you see that the thing has a ghoulish face with
monstrous features, trailing tendrils of mist. Too late
you realize that the mists have started to pour from
the pool into the room; as they surround you, they
chill you with their numbing cold, With a hellish
scream, the spectral creature bursts into the chamber
through the scrying pool. ‘It is a Wyrd,’ the Mistress
cries, ‘an ethereal inhabitant of the Spirit Plane. Destroy
it, quickly!’ If you have the Banish Spirit Special Skill
you can make the necessary signs and return the
Wyrd to its supernatural home (turn to 164). If you do
not have this Special Skill, you must prepare to fight
40

40
There is a fanfare on a trumpet and the Lord of Cleeve
Manor enters the hail, followed by nobles and landed
gentry and their many retainers, al! ready for the feast.
Lord Taris Varen is an imposing figure. He is a fall,
handsome man, past his fortieth year, dark-haired and
with a well-trimmed beard. He extends his hand in
greeting. ‘I am glad that you could take the time to
visit us here. 1 know that your quest must be pressing.’

‘Thank you for the generous offer of your hospitality,’
you reply, ‘but I understand that there is another
reason for my being here.’

‘Ah, yes. The boar,’ Lord Varen says, almost casually.
‘But that will have to wait until the morrow, Tonight,
we feast!’ He claps his hands and the assembled guests
take their places at the long trestle tables, while the
minstrels strike up again. You are seated at the end of
the high table, being one of the guests of honour, and
settle down to enjoy the meal laid out before you. The
evening passes swiftly and pleasurably with Lord
Varen's fool, Nuncle, entertaining the guests with his
jokes, tumbling and juggling with lighted torches.

Suddenly the door of the great hall swings open and a
wolf-like shadow falls across the rush-covered floor
Standing in the doorway is a figure holding a staff and
wearing a wolf-skin as a cloak. Lord Varen rises to his
feet. ‘Awenydion of Bryn Du,’ he says. ‘It must be a
year since you visited us here, soothsayer.’

‘Aye, lord, it is,’ the gaunt old man replies. ‘Now that
the world grows cold I seek only food and shelter at
37

the spirit-form. If you have the Holy Strike Special Skill
and use it against the Wyrd, you may reduce its
STAMINA by 2 points and its sxitt by 1 point. For the
duration of this battle you must reduce your own
Attack Strength by 1 point due to the chilling ethereal
vapours.

WYRD SKILL 9 STAMINA 6

If you win, turn to 164.

37

You manage to follow the tracks left by the Wolf-
Riders south-eastwards through the forest. You cross
streams and jump boulders in your pursuit of the Orcs
— until at last you find them. Mounted on their
snarling lupine steeds, the Ores, adored with their
grisly trophies from past battles and carrying the
banners of Belgaroth’s Chaos army, tum to face you,
bows at the ready, As you gallop towards them the
evil inhuman creatures let fly with their arrows. Roll
one dice and divide the result by 2 {rounding fractions
down). This is the number of arrows that hit you (lose
2 STAMINA points for each hit). Before they have a
chance to fire again, you charge the Ores, Fight each
Wolf-Rider in tum.

SKILL STAMINA
First ORC WOLF-RIDER 7 6
Second ORC
WOLF-RIDER 6 6
Third ORC WOLF-RIDER 3 5

During this battle, if you do not have the Ride Special

38-39

Skill you must reduce your Attack Strength by 1
point. If you defeat all three opponents, turn to 136,

38
The man dropping out of the tree just misses you and
lands on the road next to Firernane, Two more figures
emerge from the copse in front of you, waving ugly-
looking cudgels. Your first assailant pulls a long knife
from his tunic, and the three murderers run at you.
You must fight them all at the same time, but for the
duration of this battle you may increase your Attack
Strength by 1 point because you are still on horseback.

SKILL STAMINA
First MURDERER 7 6
Second MURDERER 6 8
Third MURDERER ss 7

As soon as you have dispatched two of your oppo-
nents, turn immediately to 29%.

39 ;
The commotion caused by your fighting alerts the

other Beast Men to your presence in their camp. You
are overwhelmed by sheer force of numbers, Your
adventure ends here,

41

your great manor. Two months ago I left the dolmen
of Manog and braved the steppes of Crun and the
wilderlands to bring you tidings from the gods.’ A
servant brings the visitor a plate of food and Aweny.
dion settles down to eat,

When he has finished, he begins to go among the
guests, telling them their futures for a few Gold Pieces.
Soon he reaches you. ‘Noble knight,’ he asks, ‘might
Awenydion tell you your future for just three Gold
Pieces?’ and gives you a toothless grin. Will you give
the old soothsayer 3 Gold Pieces to have your future
revealed to you (cross them off your Adventure Sheet
and turn to 258) or, if you consider him a fraud and
don’t want to waste your money, will you ignore him
(turn to 125)?

41
As you pull the bottle containing the potion from
your pack, a huge tendrilled, hand-like growth grabs
you and begins to squeeze the life out of you (lose 4
STAMINA points), The grip tightens and you almost
black out, dropping the pation, The bottle shatters on
the flagstones and its precious contents run away
between the cracks. Suddenty you feel the Darkthorn’s
grasp weaken and you manage to struggle free, with
the monster putting up no resistance. A foul shriek
rises from the creature’s mouth and, as you watch, the
roots that comprise its body shrivel and break apart. In
moments, all that remains of the manifestation is a
decaying mass of plant tissue. The Witherwell must
have reached the Darkthorn’s root-structure under the

42-43

ground (regain 1 Luck point). Hearing a terrible crack-
ing sound, you are roused from your stupor and,
looking up, you see that the roots covering the ceiling
and walls are also dying now that the power of the
Darkthom has gone. But the roots are the only thing
that is keeping the temple from collapsing! Blocks of
masonry start to fall round about you, and the mem-
bers of the sect run, screaming, for the exit. As the
others flee, you see Bryar, the Arch-Cleric, escaping
through a secret door at the back of the platform. You
cannot let him get away to continue his evil schemes.
Roll one dice. If you roll 1-4, turn to 157; if you roll 5
or 6, turn ta 287.

42
The guardian dead, you concentrate on how you will
open the great black granite door. The door has no
lock or handle and you cannot see any means of
opening it. Above the lintel is an inscription which
you can just make out in the lantern-light:

Beyond this portal lies the body of the foul Necromage who
brought death and sorrow to Myrton, Let nof any speak
his name lest his atrocities be remembered.

IF you know how to pass beyond the door of skulls, do it
now. If you do not, there is no way you could possibly
break down the immense stone door, so you have no
choice but to leave the sepulchre in failure. Turn to 7,

43
The Assassin’s Dagger streaks towards you, intent on

your destruction. However, as you will soon discover,
44

the knife-wielding spectral hand is no ordinary oppo-
nent. As it has no body of any sort, the hand cannot
be destroyed in combat, only fended off. If you win an
Attack Round against the spirit, you wil] not do it any
damage but merely keep it at bay. While you are
doing this, the Assassin's Dagger will try to stab you
to death!

ASSASSIN’S DAGGER SKILL 10

You are not going to be able to overcome this
opponent through combat, so you will have to try
something else. If you win two consecutive Attack
Rounds or, otherwise, after four Attack Rounds, you
will have worked yourself into a position from which
you can try to escape from the spectral assassin. Will
you run into the copse to hide from it (turn to 373) or
will you leap on to Firemane’s back and flee on
horseback (turn to 211)?

44

The door to the small stone lock-up hangs half off its
hinges, Descending a short flight of steps, you see that
the damp circular cell at the bottom is empty, with
rusted manacles hanging, unused, on the wall, How-
ever, you do not notice the rotten trapdoor at the foot
of the steps. Test your Luck. If you are Lucky, you pull
yourself back just in time as the wood gives way under
your weight. If you are Unlucky, you fall into a lower
dungeon whose floor is several metres lower down
(lose 3 STAMINA points for falling), then you have to
struggle out again. Finding nothing useful here, you
leave the lock-up; return to 31 and choose again.

45-47

45

You are within sight of the South Gate when you find
the way temporarily blocked by a procession of clerics
passing along the street. The priests are wearing long
green robes and are chanting in a low monotone. As
you survey the scene before you, you overhear a
merchant talking to a servant: ‘The Clerics of Lein are
a charitable priesthood who do much to help the poor
and needy of this town, but they are also a very
secretive group. Only the initiated may enter their
ternple.” If you have either or both of the words
‘Rellim’ and ‘Nroht’ written on your Adventure Sheet,
turn to 77. If you haven’t, turn to 214g.

46

Apart from his rather unusual weapon, the cleric pos-
sesses nothing else of interest except a talisman, made
in the shape of intertwined metal brambles cast from
some alloy, tied to a piece of vine. As you hold the
talisman in your hand, you notice the surrounding
plants beginning to move in its direction, You wave
the charm at them and they become still again. You
deduce that the talisman must be one of plant control.
If you decide to take it, add the Cleric’s Talisman to
your Adventure Sheet. Still harbouring suspicions
about the cleric and his actions, you return to Firemane
and leave the Forest of Lein. Turn to 17

47
You hurry along the tunnel and, reaching another

wooden door, fling it open and run through. You are
standing inside a vast, pillared chamber. A flight of
48

steps leads up the side of one wall to an iron-bound
door. The room is full of macabre torture instruments.
In the middle of the room is a rack, an iron maiden
stands against one wall and small confining cages
hang from chains in the ceiling; and there are various
braziers, branding irons and other devices used to
inflict pain lying about the place, all thick with dust
and cobwebs. Several skeletons are still hanging from
the lichen-covered walls by chains and manacles, and a
number of grilled doors lead away from here to cells
and deeper dungeons. However, you are convinced
that what you seek lies beyond that door at the top of
the steps. On one side of the torture chamber is a
large chair with metal clasps attached to its arms and
legs. Your head is suddenly filled with whispering
voices seductively telling you to sit down and rest for
a while. You are sure that the voices mean no good,
but their suggestion sounds so tempting. Test your
Skill, adding 2 to the dice roll if you have the Commune
Special Skill. If you succeed, turn to 240. If you fail,
turn to 155

48
You follow the road south out of the ancient and
mysterious forest and enter a region of open heathland.
In the distance lies the menacing dark line of the
Chaos-ridden Banarask Hills From a point several
kilometres south of you, this side of the hills, a thick
plume of smoke is rising, like a dirty smudge, into the
sky, The road seems to be leading you straight to it,
Coming to the top of a rise, at last you can see what is
causing the smoke. The walled town of Carass lies

49

ahead of you and parts of it are on fire; it is being
besieged by a force of dark-clad warriors carrying
black banners. The warriors’ activities appear to be
centred round a grim stone tower on the southern side
of the town. Even at this distance you can hear the
clamour of battle as the townspeople defend their
homes against the attacking horde, and, above that, a
regular booming sound as if samething is being struck
against the walls. Before you even see the iron gauntlet
and black sword emblems of the attackers, you know
that they are from the ranks of Belgaroth’s fanatical
Chaos Warriors. When the wind changes direction
momentarily, the smell of slaughter and carnage is
carried to your nostrils. Incensed, you kick your heels
into your steed’s sides and charge to the aid of Carass.
The gate in front of you has been left unguarded while
the town militia concentrate their forces along the
southern walls to stop the Chaos horde breaking
through. However, one of the enemy, an ugly Troll,
has seized the opportunity and is entering the town at
this undefended spot. Hearing your approach, the
Troll hefts its pole-arm into position, ready for combat.
You attack immediately.

TROLL SKILL 9

If you defeat this member of Belgaroth’s force, turn
to 98.

STAMINA 9

49
Firemane carries you southwards across many kilo-

metres of bleak moorland in the direction of Havalok
After you have been travelling for several hours, you
50-51

catch sight of a horse and rider galloping along a track
that nuns from the east, parallel to the edge of the dark
forest that is still a long way off in the distance. It
looks as if the horseman’s course will intercept yours if
you continue at your present speed. If you are happy
to meet this rider, turn to 147. If, however, you want
to spur Firemane into a gallop to avoid the stranger,
turn to 191.

50

Before you stands the Juggernaut. The imposing stane
tower is over hwenty metres high and is built on top of
a huge war-carriage drawn by wheels four metres in
diameter. Near the top of the siege engine a metal
Demon's head belches out smoke and steam while at its
base a battering-ram, fashioned like a spiked iron fist,
swings rhythmically in and out of an opening, demolish-
ing another section of wall by its constant bombard-
ment. Under the Demon's head is a huge shield with
the motif of a skull over a black tower: the crest of Caer
Skaal. From inside the Juggernaut you can hear terrible
roars, groans and creaking. Maybe the thing is driven
by Demons. Putting aside such fears, you look for a
way into this impregnable moving fortress. A ladder,
fixed to the undercarriage near the back wheels, leads
up to a trapdoor in the tower's base. You decide to
make this your target. Test your Luck. If you are Lucky,
turn to 220. If you are Unlucky, tum to 146

54
Make a note of the word ‘Enore’ on your Adventure
Sheet, You tell the hag about your encounter with the

sz

Lich. ‘Good,’ she says, ‘then you can collect the first
ingredient, but you must do it now, by moonlight.’
Returning to the scaffold, you get the grisly job over
and done with as quickly as possible, Fortunately the
Lich remains dead while you carry out the task.

At dawn (add 1 day to the Time Elapsed) you leave
the cave and, following the crone’s directions, set off
in search of a Cockatrice that has been terrorizing the
local area recently. At the end of a steep rocky gorge
you find the entrance to the network of caves in
which the monster has its lair. Tethering your mount
to a rock, you light your lantern and enter the gloomy
hole. Your footsteps echo round the walls as you step
warily down the tunnel, and water drips from the
ceiling into pools on the floor with an eerie plopping
sound. A few metres further on, you come to a T-
junction. Do you want to go to the left (turn to 182)
or to the right (turn to 126)?

52
Wrapped in a piece of velvet you find a triangular
prism made of glass. Return to 274

53

53
ch 3 3 As you are led along the dark stone corridors of the
me eS i guild, you pass several doors from behind which you
a. He Be ey can hear the sounds of soldiers practising their fighting
\j ment 4 ee skills. Stronn leads you into a circular torch-lit room, in
aod pre the centre of which is a pit several metres deep. The

mercenaries crowd into the room as you are directed
down a flight of steps into the brawl-pit. A cheer goes
up from the spectators as a portcullis on the far side of
the pit rises and the mercenaries’ champion enters the
arena. The man looks as tall as an Ogre and is built
like an ox. The only armour he wears are leather
crossbelts looped over his muscular torso and a spiked
helmet which hides his face. He is armed with a
vicious-looking sword with a jagged blade, and a long
knife. Stronn raises his hands and a hush descends
over the mob. ‘This is not a fight to the death,’ he
announces. ‘The winner shall be the first to knock the
other to the ground. Are the combatants ready?’ You
and the mercenary nod in reply. ‘Then let the trial by
combat commence!’ With an animal roar the champion
charges at you across the pit while his fellows shout
his name in encouragement.

MERCENARY CHAMPION skiLt 10 $TAMINA 11

)
ee

Jone Lent !

If the mercenary wins an Attack Round, roll one dice
On a roll of 2-3 his jagged blade does the usual 2
points of STAMINA damage; on a roll of 4—6 it inflicts
3 STAMINA points of damage on you. If you roll a
double-6 when calculating your Attack Strength, and if
you win that Attack Round, your blow hits your
opponent with such force that you knock him to the

54-56

ground (tum to 1497). If the mercenary’s Attack
Strength is ever 22, turn at once to 22, Otherwise, if
you reduce the mercenary’s STAMINA to 4 points or
less, turn to 117; if he reduces your STAMINA to 4
points or less, turn to 22.

54
If you have the Commune Special Skill, tum to 122. If
you haven’t, Test your Luck. If you are Lucky, turn to
122; if you are Unlucky, tum to 14.

55

You lift the dragon shield from the statue’s arm and
place it on your own. It feels light and, although
damaged by time and previous use, it should prove a
useful means of defence. Whenever you are involved
in combat and you are carrying this shield you may
reduce an enemy's Attack Strength by z point. If you
want to take this shield and you already have another,
then you must leave the first here. Turn to 353.

56
The Necromage grabs you and lays one hand on an
exposed area of your skin. At once, disgusting
maggot-like worms burst from his putrid flesh and
start burrowing into you. Roll one dice and add 1 to
see how many Flesh Grubs latch on to you (lose 1
STAMINA point for each Flesh Grub that is nibbling
into you). The Hesh-eating maggots can easily be
pulled off and crushed, but first you will have to
destroy the Necromage. Return to 116 and continue

the fight.

57-59

57
You throw yourself out of the way as the phantom

horse’s hoofs crash down on the flagstones where you
had been standing just a moment before. Ignoring
you, the ghostly knight urges its mount towards the
king, raising its weapon, ready to strike. You must act
quickly. Will you:

Use the Banish Spirit Special Skill, if

you have it? Turn to 105
Use the Holy Strike Special Skill, if

you have it? Turn to 303
Attack the ghost? Turn to 255

58
The double raises its weapon and advances towards
you. What will you do now? Defend yourself {tum to
113) or stay as you are (turn to 286)?

59
You come to on a cold stone slab. You try to move

but discover that your arms and legs have been tied to
the stone with strong vines. Looking around, you see
that you are on a raised platform at one end of a vast
hall, the walls and ceiling of which are covered with
thick root-like growths. The hall is filled with a great
throng of initiates while, surrounding you, are the
so-called Clerics of Lein, one of whom has been
left holding your backpack (your weapon is missing).
The Arch-Cleric, a bald, bearded man wearing green
robes adorned with twisting bramble-like designs,
then addresses the crowd: ‘Brothers and sisters, the

60

Darkthorn grows stronger with every passing day,
and soon our purpose will come to fruition. The
ancient forest is weakening and, with it, the elemental
powers that control it. Soon it will pose no threat to
our ally, the Dread Lord, and a forest of the Darkthorn
shall rise up in its place!’ The priest tums to you
and raises his hands. “O, great Darkthorn, ancient
spirit,’ he intones, ‘I summon thee to take this sacri-
fice so that the Root of Evil may never wither!’
Suddenly the flagstones heave and thick black roots
burst through the platform. Desperately you struggle
with your bonds, Roll four dice. If the total is less
than or equal to your sTAMINA score, tum to 279,
If the total is greater than your STAMINA score, turn
to 108.

60

Under a leaden sky these bleak moors look even more
desolate. Riding along undisturbed, you are almost
lulled into a false sense of security. It is then that you
hear the sound of pounding hoofs and catch sight of a
distant group of riders galloping towards you from
the south-east. There is no way that you can avoid
them, and as they draw rapidly closer you see that
they are not mounted soldiers at all but four Centaurs,
creatures that are part man and part horse. As they
charge towards you, the Chaos Centaurs scream a
war-cry, proclaiming death to the Templars. You must
face them all simultaneously! You have time to use
either a crossbow or a lance against one of these
adversaries before you engage in hand-to-hand
combat.

61

SKILL STAMINA
First CHAOS CENTAUR 10 9
Second CHAOS CENTAUR 9 10
Third CHAOS CENTAUR 10 10
Fourth CHAOS CENTAUR 9 11

If you do not have the Ride Special Skill you must
reduce your Attack Strength by 2 points for the
duration of this battle. If a Centaur scores a hit against
you, roll one dice; if the number rolled is odd, the
chaotic’s weapon wounds you, causing 3 STAMINA
points of damage. If you strike a Centaur, rol! one
dice; if the number rolled is odd, the chaotic’s armour
reduces the severity of the damage from your weapon
by i point. If you are triumphant in this titanic
struggle, turn to 332

61
The door opens into a room full of great cogs and
wheels which are tuming, operating huge pieces of
machinery and strange contraptions. Some of the work-
ings here swing the battering-ram in and out of an
opening in the tower to your left, while in front of
you a great iron chamber fills the space between floor
and ceiling. Attached to this are levers, dials and other
fitments; the chamber itself has been constructed to
look like a gargantuan scaled beast. Everything you
have seen here suggests that the Juggernaut is not
controlled by some supernatural force but that it is
powered by a colossal steam-engine, Destroying it may
be easier than you had first imagined. First of all,
however, you must get past the bald half-Giant in charge

62

here. The man is stripped to the waist and, despite the
sweat and grime covering his torso, you can see that he
has been branded on his chest with the mark of Chaos.
Roaring, he charges at you, his fists his only weapons,

WEAPONMASTER SKILL 10 STAMINA 12

If you defeat the half-Giant, turn to 178.

a

62

You jump out of the way just in time. and the cart
trundies past harmlessly. You manage to spot the
thieving mummers as they are going into a run-down
old building. Bursting through the door, you surprise
the gang just as they are handing over their ill-gotten
loot to an older man who, you guess, is their leader,
the playwright Oddfellow. ‘Curse you, Templarf he
shouts. "You'll regret ever interfering in our schemes,’
With that, the mummers altack you. The players use
improvised weapons, such as chair-legs, to fight with.
You do not want to kill the players, merely to disarm
them or knock them unconscious. Once you have won
two Attack Rounds agains! an opponent, you manage
to do this. However, you are also pulling your blows
so as not to injure the thieves seriously (deduct +
point from any damage inflicted by a successful strike}
and must therefore reduce your Attack Strength by 1
point for the duration of this battle. Fight the mummers
two at a time in the confined space of the room,

63-65

SKILL STAMINA
KNIGHT 7 6
WITCH 6 6
HORSEHEAD 6 7
PICKPOCKET b 5
ODDFELLOW ” 7

If you defeat all the mummers, or after sixteen Attack
Rounds have passed, turn to 152.

$3
With a baleful how! the ghost departs this world.
Searching the chamber, you find nothing of any use to
you, so you leave to search elsewhere. Return to 243
and make another choice.

64

The starving woman stands directly in front of you:
she raises her hands and mutters something under her
breath. At once you are filled with the most terrible
hunger. Before this day is out, you must eat three
meals or drink one tot of your Restorative Potion
(without recovering any STAMINA points) as a result
of the spell cast by the prophet who represents famine.
Turn to 114

65
The holy blast bathes the Lich in a silvery light, and it
doubles up in agony. Roll one dice: this is the number
of sTAMINA points you may subtract from the undead
horror before you finish it off with your weapon. Now
return to 283 and fight the corpse.

a

i

66-67

66

Stumbling over the pronunciation of some of the
words, you finally make if to the end of the page. You
pause, expecting something to happen at any moment
— and happen it does. A thin wisp of smoke rises from
the page in front of you and forms into a thick black
cloud. The dense vapour rapidly condenses into the
shape of a grotesque creature with a lengthened human-
oid skull, bony lumps protruding from its spine and
two powerfully muscled arms that end in huge clawed
hands — although from the waist down the horror is
no more than a smoky trail. You have just completed
reading a spell for summoning demonic assistance, and
you are not standing inside a protective pentagram.
The Demonic Slayer glares at you from the depths of
its glinting, midnight-black eyes and, snarling, flies at
you with claws raised. What will you do now?

Use the Holy Strike Special Skill (if

you have it)? Turn to 223
Use the Banish Spirit Special Skill (if
you have it)? Turn to 237
Try to reverse the spell? Turn to 324
Attack the Demon with your
weapon? Tum fo 13
67

Early on your men weaken under the Chaos spawn’‘s
onslaught. Suddenly the ranks of Beast Men part and a
monstrous, bull-like creature charges at you, snorting.
The raging animal has a blood-red hide and demonic
black homs. A Beast Man sits astride its back, waving

68-69

a battle-axe in one clawed hand while gripping the
creature's spiked metal collar with the other. You must
fight the Chaos Steed.

CHAOS STEED SKILL 9

If you win, deduct 1 point from the Beast Men’s Battle
Strength, then Engage in Battle once again. If this time
you have the advantage, turn to 149. If you have the
disadvantage, turn to 254.

STAMINA 12,

6s

Among the trophies are the expected deer, foxes,
wolves and bears. However, there is also a sabre-
toothed tiger, a unicom and a manticore. Looking at
the unicorn, the steward says, ‘My lord's late father
caught that in the forest using the usual lure and
entrapment of a young maiden and a wreath of flowers.
The manticore had its Jair in the Banarask Hills and its
capture won the hunting competition, held in celebra-
tion of the Overlord’s marriage.’ Turn to 40.

69

As you are hacking your way through the under-
growth, a large trunk suddenly moves into your
path, blocking your way. Two branches reach to-
wards you from the tree and, hidden in the thick
cracked bark, you make out a mouth and a pair of
small but incredibly ancient eyes. You have disturbed
one of the gardeners of the forest: a Tree Man. The
plant-like creature lumbers forward on its splayed
roots, ready to deal with you as it deals with all tres-
passers.

70

TREE MAN SKILL 8 STAMINA &

Both branches (with 8 sTAMINA points each) will lash
out at you each Attack Round, so it will be as if you
are fighting two opponents. The Tree Man is far too
strong to kill, but if you sever its two main branches
(reduce both their sTAMINA scores to zero) it will
retreat back into the forest, leaving you to go on your
way. Turn to 324.

=

a:

ahs
~

70
You are able to decipher the wizard’s jottings and
realize that his findings are truly incredible. Savant
discovered five Words of Power which, when spoken
backwards in front of something tainted with Chaos,
would counteract its power and bring back order and
harmony; anything driven by the power of Chaos
would be destroyed. However, the use of such magic
could prove to be equally hazardous to whoever
spoke the words. You can only guess why Savant
was unable to use his discovery against Belgaroth.

71

Perhaps he tried but did not have the strength to
complete the utterance. The Words are written on the
page in front of you: ‘Xi Syte Nind Naderd Nuheno.’
You commit them to memory and hope that you
never have to put yourself into the position of having
to use them. You decide not to waste any more time
searching Savant's laboratory, so you leave, following
the tunnel back in the direction of the portoullis. Turn
to 222.

Lothar was a doughty Dwarf fighter from the town of
Crun at the foot of the mountains. Many were the
times when he led the Warriors of Telak from the
Demonkeep Outpost to repel attacks from barbarians
and the soldiers of the warmongering Lord Meracass
of Brice. In every battle Lothar would fell his enemies
with his trusty axe. When using the axe, unless you
have an Axe Weapon Special Skill, you must reduce
your skitt by 1 point, although it still does only 2
STAMINA points of damage (note this in the Weapon
box on your Adventure Sheet). Return to 356.

7a~-74

72
And then he is dead. (Write down the word ‘Ronnoc’
on your Adventure Sheet.) If you wish, you may take
Connor’s Magic Sword, which will harm undead and
Demons but confers no other bonuses, and his shield,
which bears the motif of a rampant lion (when you use
this in battle, you may reduce an opponent’s Attack
Strength by 1 point). Having offered a prayer to Telak
for Connor's soul, you remount Firemane and set off
in pursuit of his murderers. Test your Skill, subtracting
2 from the dice roll if you have the Tracking Special
Skill. if you succeed, turn to 37. If you fail, turn to 397.

3
The Cockatrice, the villagers will tel] you, has taken up
residence in a network of caves in the hills east of
Ennox. Following their directions, you are soon leading
Firemane along the steep rocky gorge towards the
cave mouth. Tethering your mount to a rock, you
light your lantern and enter the gloomy hole. Your
footsteps echo round the walls as you step warily down
the tunnel, and water drips from the ceiling into pools
on the floor with an eerie plopping sound. A few metres
further on, you come to a T-junction. Do you want to
go to the left (turn fo 182) or to the right {turn to 126)?

74
The mill, a large stone building, is not hard to find: it

stands at the edge of the village, next to the River
Wende. The great wheel groans as it is turned slowly
by the millstream, and you can hear the steady mechani-
cal grinding of machinery inside the building The

I EE

73-77

door to the mill swings open at your touch and you
find yourself looking into an empty room, motes of
dust sparkling in the sunlight fom the doorway. The
place seems to be deserted. Do you want to enter the
mill and explore further (turn to 187), or will you
leave Wendeford altogether (turn to 49)?

75

During the night you wake up, sensing that all is not
well. Hovering above you you see a ghostly white
hand clutching a dagger, the blade glinting in the
moonlight, paised and ready to strike. What will you
de to defend yourself? Will you use the Banish: Spirit
Special Skill. if you have it (turn to 141), or unsheathe
your weapon, ready to fight it (turn to 43)?

76
With a voice like the sound of rustling leaves, the first
creature speaks. “You have trespassed in the forest,’ it
says. ‘It is many years since a mortal has wandered
this far. You must come with us.’ The bark-and-fungus
humanoid takes Firemane’s reins and prepares to leave
the clearing. Will you go with these strange creatures
(turn to 368) or will you attack them now (turn to

297)?

77
A charitable priesthood? The actions of these ‘Clerics

of Lein’ you have witnessed so far could hardly be
described as charitable. There is evil at work here. If
you wish to investigate further, turn to 93. If you do

78-79

not want to waste any more time here in Havalok,
turn to 219.

78
Your reactions are too slow and you are caught by the
rope, throwing you backwards off your mount. You
hit the road painfully on your back (lose 3 STAMINA
points and 1 sKkiLt point) and sit up, dazed; tum to

205.

79
You let fly with your righteous attack just as Belgaroth

launches a dark force bolt at you. The two blasts of
energy collide and cancel each other out in a blaze of
yellow sparks, throwing you to the floor (lose 2
STAMINA points). Turn to 162.

Bo

Armed and ready for your quest, you hurry to the
stables, where you find that Firernane has already been
saddled and is eager to be on his way, You are handed
a backpack and inside it you find enough Provisions
for five meals, a lantern and tinderbox, and a purse
containing 20 Gold Pieces. There is also a Hask marked
with the Rune of Healing which contains some of
Aranandus’s Restorative Potion. There is enough here
for two tots, and each tot will restore your STAMINA
to its Initial level. Urging your trusty steed forward,
you gallop through the main gates and leave the
Citadel. Taking the main road south, towards the town
of Havalok which lies two days’ ride away, you pass
through well-cultivated fields and pleasant hills. How-
ever, as you travel further away from the capital, you
begin to see some of the results of the disruption in
the kingdom: a distinct atmosphere of gloom is hang-
ing over the hamlets and farmsteads, and you pass
many beggars on the road, There is a sharp chill in the
air as the month of Close tightens its grip on the land,
and you fear for those people whose crops have not
been as plentiful as they might have hoped

It is early aftemoon when you catch sight of a
strange-looking procession coming towards you along
the road, It seems to be composed of a motley crowd
or peasants and farmers, but at their head are three
bizarre figures. The first is tall and dressed in a long
black habit. In one hand he holds a scythe, its blade
gleaming duily, and beneath his hood you see that he
is wearing a wolf-skull mask. The next is of average

81-82

height but ts swathed in torn rags and bandages. As
he trudges along the road he rings a bell warning that
he is unclean — a leper! The third figure is a gaunt
woman, her almost skeletal body covered by a tattered
cloak. It looks as if she has not eaten for weeks.

The first man stops and raises his hand for the proces-
sion to halt. ‘What have we here?’ he says. ‘I do believe
it is a knight errant, or should I say an errant knight?’
The crowd laugh at their leader’s remark and begin to
jeer you. ‘Enough!’ he shouts. ‘This is the epoch of our
damnation. While the’ common people starve, our
blessed Templars live in splendour and plenty! We
three are the Prophets of Doom, come to save the
people. The doom we prophesy shall be yours!’ At
these words the crowd cheers and several raise pitch-
forks and other improvised weapons, ready to fulfil
their leader's prophecy, Some have already begun to
edge round you. You are going to have to act fast to
get out of this unpleasant situation. Will you try to
ride through the mob (tum to 114), attack the prophets
(turn to £54) or try to talk your way out (turn to 197)?

81
Kneeling at the altar, the tiredness and pain in your
body ease and you feel invigorated, Restore both your
STAMINA and sxiLt scores to their Initial levels.
Having been blessed, you leave the shrine. Turn to 23.

82
Before leaving, Lord Varen gives you a parcel contain-
ing enough Provisions for 3 meals. You ride through

83-34

the gatehouse and leave Cleeve Manor behind as you
make for Havalok. You are within sight of the walls of
the town when dusk falls. Riding on in the fast-failing
light, you pass a copse of trees at the edge of the
road. Suddenly a dark shape drops out of the branches
of one tree as you pass under it. Test your Luck. If you
are Lucky, turn to 38. If you are Unlucky, turn to 346.

83
Before you realize what is going on, you inhale a great
lungful of pollen and fall into a deep sleep. Turn to 59,

84
As the flames from the oil die down, the villagers make
their break for freedom. You are starting to climb
carefully down from the Wicker Man when you hear
the crackling of burning wood. Looking down, you
see with horror that the Wicker Man has caught alight
and the fire is spreading rapidly. There is nothing else
for it: you are going to have to jump! Launching
yourself into space, you just hope that the ground isn’t
far away. Test your Luck. If you are Lucky, you suffer
only minor bruising when you land (lose 2 stTAMINA
points), If you are Unlucky, you twist your ankle and
skin your knees as you hit the ground (lose 4 STAMINA
points and 2 sxiut point). The villagers are evading
the enraged and bewildered Beast Men by fleeing into
the hills. The Wicker Man, now well ablaze, topples
forward when the wooden supports holding it up burn
through; with a tremendous crash it collapses on top
of the crowd of Beast Men, sending a great flurry of
sparks up into the night sky. You make the most of
85

your opportunity and run back to Firemane, knowing
you have prevented a terrible atrocity from taking
place and that you have saved the villagers from
incineration (add 1 point to your HONOUR score),

Galloping away through the darkness of the hills, you
find yourself approaching the smouldering remains of
a ransacked village. A hastily erected wooden stockade
stands in the middle, and from your vantage point you
can see only one guard at its entrance. Do you want
to tether Firemane here and sneak into the Beast
Men's camp for further investigation, now that night
has fallen (turn to 340), or do you want to ride on,
away from here (turn to 296)?

85
Your perseverance is rewarded when you crest a rise
and see the lights of a stone building beckoning to
you through the darkness: Torrin’s forge

Seeing you soaked to the skin and shivering with cold,
Tortin Silverblade hurries you into his home and sits
you down beside the fire while he stables Firemane.
You soon find a bowl of hot rabbit stew in your hands
and, tucking in, you feel a lot better (restore up to 4
STAMINA points). ‘Tt is a long time since ] last saw any
of the Order,’ the Dwarf says, remembering his days
as one of the Warriors of Telak. ‘Tell me, how are
things at the Citadel? Have you heard from the Demon-
keep Outpost of late? And what brings you here on
such a dreadful Close night?’ You do your best to
answer Torrin’s questions and tell him about your
quest and what has befallen you so far. Having heard

86

your tale, the Dwarf looks grave. ‘Belgaroth must be
stopped and. if anyone can do it, a Knight of Telak
can! | have something that | feel you may have greater
need of than I.’ Walking to the far side of his workshop,
Torrin drags the anvil to one side to reveal a hidden
trapdoor. Opening this, he takes out a treasured posses.
sion, a coat of silvered chainmail, ‘This chainmail is my
finest piece of work, Torrin explains, ‘woven with
charms of protection and resilience, Take it.’ Eagerly
you change your battered chainmail armour for this
new coat, While you are wearing it, you may reduce
any damage done against you in battle by 2 point but,
because the chainmail is magical, you need make no
change to your Attack Strength. (Regain 1 Luck point
for this new acquisition.) The sounds of the rain
gradually fade, and you and your host prepare for
sleep.

You are woken by a blood-curdling how] which cuts
through the night. ‘That was no wolf’ Torrin says,
looking anxiously at you. It also sounded as if the
beast was quite close. Do you want to leave the safety
of the forge and investigate (turn to 295) or will you
wait and see what happens (turn to 19)?

86
To prove to Lord Varen that you have been victorious
in your hunt, you decide to take the boar’s tusks back
to Cleeve Manor, before setting off north through the
forest on the return journey. As you are riding sedately
through the leafless trees, you feel a gust of chill wind,
and you shiver. Nor can you shake off the feeling that

87-88

you are not alone and that your progress is being
watched. It is then that you hear the distant sound of
chanting in the west, coming through the ancient
woodland. The voice is far off, so you cannot make
out what it is saying. If you want to investigate the
chanting, tum to 365. If you do not, turn to 17.

87

From an old herbal, you recognize that the orange
fungi are Ironbane. The spores of the plant corrode
metal on contact — which would have been very
dangerous for you if you had entered the clearing,
However, the mushrooms could prove a valuable
weapon if you could collect some safely. Do you want
to try to gather some of the Ironbane fungus (turn to
250), or will you ride round the clearing to avoid the
fungi altogether (turn to 8)?

88
You misjudge a jump and a tree-trunk smashes into
Firemane, knocking him and you to the ground (lose 2
STAMINA points). You pick yourself up in time to see
the Hill Giant running towards you, angrily swinging
his club and bellowing ferociously,

HILL GIANT SKILL 9 STAMINA 11

If the Giant wins an Attack Round, roll one dice. If
you roll a 5, the blow causes 3 points of damage to
your STAMINA. If you roll a 6, you are knocked off
your feet It takes one Attack Round to get up again;
meanwhile the Giant gets in an unopposed strike {lose
2 STAMINA points). If you win, turn to 173.

89-92

89
You wave the amulet of plant control at the weeds
and they retreat from you. Unsheathing your weapon,
you rush at the Arch-Cleric, who prepares to defend
himself with his twisted staff.

BRYAR SKILL 9

If you win, turn to 185.

STAMINA 9

go
You remember that, if the Cockatrice catches sight of its
reflection in a mirror, it will die . . . Easier said than done!
If you do not have a mirror or if you do not want to try
this plan of attack, return to 27, otherwise, Test your Luck
twice. If you are Unlucky on either occasion, the beast
attacks you (return to 27 and fight the monster,
remembering that it has automatically won the first
Attack Round already); if you are Lucky both times, the
Cockatrice looks into the mirror and, seeing its reflection,
drops dead. If you have the word ‘Enorc’ written on your
Adventure Sheet, tum to 221; if you haven't, turn fo 168.

91
This splendid helmet is surmounted by a polished
eagle with wings oulstretched at its crest, It was taken
at the sacking of Ventare during the Second Ruddie-
stone War, in 1805 Old Time, and yet time has not
tarnished it. Return to 356

92
‘| have made my judgement,’ the Lord of the Forest
intones. ‘You have caused harm to these ancient wood-
93-94

lands and you are a danger to all who dwell here.
Therefore I pronounce that you be given to the forest
to pay for your crimes.’ These words spoken, the
Wodewose surround you and dispense justice. Your
adventure is over,

93

Keeping well out of sight, you follow the procession
of clerics to their innocuous-looking temple at the
edge of the town. When all have entered, you wait for
a few moments before following them inside. You find
yourself in a long-deserted temple. Ancient wall-hang-
ings, covered in strange, plant-like patterns, still adorn
the building, but any other objects of worship are
missing. At the far end of the room you find a stone
staircase that ends at a large set of double doors
Surrounding the doors are thick, dark roots which
break through the walls in many places, Carefully
trying the doors, you discover that they are locked. If
you have anything with which to disguise yourself,
you could use it now. Do you want to knock on the
doors to gain someone’s attention, as they look far too
thick and heavy to be broken down (turn to 172), or
will you leave the temple and Havalok altogether (tum
to 219)?

94
You take one step towards the macabre edifice and

there, directly in front of you, stands a terrifying
spectre. The apparition makes a grasp for you with
decayed hands reaching from under its burial shroud,
while its jaw drops open and lets out a rasping howl,

95-96

no doubt warning others in the tomb of your presence.
You must deal with the Haunt swiftly. If you have the
Banish Spirit Special Skill, and you wish to use it, tum
to 190. Otherwise, you will have to fight the appari-
tion; turn to 376

95
Entering the northern tumulus, you walk down a

sloping passage cut into the mound until you reach an
area of darkness which the light from your lantern
cannot penetrate, An intense cold, even colder than
the Close air, also radiates out of this pool of blackness.
Do you want to risk entering this section of the tunnel
(turn to 21) or would you rather retrace your steps
and leave the cairn (turn to 316)?

96

The bird disappears through the archway, deserting its
master — or is it? You struggle on, blocking blows
from Belgaroth’s vicious Runesword while trying to
find a chink in your enemy’s armour. Suddenly a horde
of Chaos Knights mms into the chamber, warned of
their leader's plight by the bird. You are quickly
surrounded and overcome, Belgaroth himself dealing
the death-blow.

97

‘Enter,’ says the voice, and the doors are opened. The
initiates lock them again and, so as not to draw
attention to yourself, you follow the passage that
leads eastwards for as far as you can see, The tunnel
seems to be endless. You must have walked several
kilometres away from the town before the passageway
opens out into a small antechamber. Peering through
an archway, you find yourself looking into a vast hall,
the walls and ceiling of which are covered with thick,
root-like growths. At the far end of the chamber is a
raised stone platform, standing on which are the Clerics
of Lein, while a great throng of initiates fills the hall in
front of them. You are surprised and shocked to see
that, as well as many commoners among the initiates,
there are also nobles and high-ranking members of the
various religious orders of Ruddlestone. As you enter
the hall, the Arch-Cleric, bald and bearded and wearing
green robes adorned with twisting bramble-like de-
signs, is addressing the assembled sect: ‘And so, broth-
ers and sisters of the Darkthom, I, Bryar, Arch-Cleric
of our order, thank you, for our purpose is coming to
fruition. The ancient forest is weakening and, with it,
the elemental powers that contro! it. Soon it will pose
no threat to our ally, the Dread Lord, and a forest of
the Darkthorn shall rise up in its place. All praise the
Darkthorn!’

‘All praise the Darkthorn!’ the throng reply

So it is the clerics who are behind the destruction of
the forest with their foul weeds and nutrient-stealing
brambles! They must be stopped — but how? It must

SO ee

98

be the Arch-Cleric who holds the power here; if you
were to defeat him, you might weaken the power of
the Darkthorn itself. Disguised as you are, you make
your way through the throng unhindered, as far as the
stone platform. Drawing your weapon, you leap on to
the dais, ready to grab the sect’s high priest. Seeing
you, the Arch-Cleric raises his hands and mutters a
dark incantation. The ground heaves and thick black
roots burst through the stone floor between you and
the priests. The fibrous stems grow rapidly upwards
for several metres, intertwining until they have formed
into a gigantic, plant-like humanoid covered in vicious
thorns. Two emerald orbs glow with an evil awareness
and, with its trunk-like legs stil! firmly rooted in the
ground, the manifestation of the Darkthom reaches for
you with knotted hands. You are going to have to
defend yourself against this dark elemental spirit. Will
you:

Draw your weapon and do battle? Tum to 143
Use the Holy Strike Special Skill (if

you can)? Tum to 239
Use the Banish Spirit Special Skill (if

you can)? Turn to 260
Use a Cleric’s Talisman (if you have

one)? Tum to 28
Use the potion Witherwell (if you

have it)? Turn to 41

98
Riding through the town, you soon reach the central
guard-post, Dismounting, you enter and ask a guard

98

to take you to his captain. ‘Captain Vair died this
morning,’ the man says. ‘He was killed while trying to
defend the south wall against the Chaos Warriors’
attack. Since losing our leader, morale among the men
is low, and many have resigned themselves to defeat.’
You cannot let Carass fall to Belgaroth’s evil legion.
You tell the guard to gather together all those mem-
bers of the town militia who can be spared, and within
half an hour you are addressing the exhausted and
battle-weary soldiers. First of all you find out what has
happened here. It was two days ago that the Chaos
Warriors made their attack, the assault being led by
the Juggernaut, the tower you saw on the south side
of the town. It is an awesome war-machine, armed
with many siege weapons including a destructive
battering-ram, and the walls were soon breached. Some
of the soldiers believe the tower to be driven by
Demons and will not go near it. You formulate a plan:
If you could break through the enemy lines and board
the Juggernaut, perhaps you could find a way to
destroy it and so remove the enemy's main advantage.
The soldiers all agree that this is an excellent strategy.
If you have the Battle Tactics Special Skill and you
want to use it, turn to 201. If you do not, tum to 382.

99-101

99
As you are deciding what to do next, all of a sudden
you hear a voice speaking inside your head. Brave
knight, it says, listen carefully, for my spirit is swiftly
departing from this world. The clerics are in league with
the Usurping Serpent. The forest is in danger. Waste no
more time here. Do not... I was foully slain... a Demon.
Then the spirit of Herluin the Sage is gone. Turn to 166

100
Keeping to the main corridors and staircases, you
manage to infiltrate the tower without attracting the
attention of Belgaroth's guards. You soon find yourself
in a huge feast-hall with a high vaulted ceiling. In the
centre of the room is a long wooden table with chairs
all round it, one, larger than the others, bearing morbid
carvings. Dark banners carrying the motifs of a metal
gauntlet holding a black sword and a skull above a
black tower hang from the walls of the chamber — the
arms of Belgaroth’s Chaos Knights and the Portress of
the Skull. The place is deserted and an eerie whine fills
the feast-hall as a draught blows in through cracks in
the mortar holding the stones of the walls together. A
broad flight of steps leads up out of the room, and
you make for this. If you have the word ‘Ronnoc’
written on your Adventure Sheet, turn to 54; otherwise,
turn fo 14.

LoL
You burst out of the room and hurtle down the spiral
staircase to the trapdoor. Flinging it open, you drop to
the ground and then run full pelt until you think your

101

heart will burst with the exertion. You throw yourself
behind the remains of a wall just as the pressure of the
steam, building up inside the boiler, causes it to ex-
plode! The grim edifice is torn apart by the blast and a
great ball of fire erupts from the siege-engine, flying
high into the sky. Burning wreckage and rubble from
the tower rain down all round you but, miraculously,
you are not hit. What is left of the devastating war-
machine is now a raging inferno — the Juggernaut is
no more. With their siege-engine destroyed, Belga-
roth’s troops panic and, totally demoralized, flee in
disarray.

When you stagger back to the guard post a great
cheer goes up from the crowd of citizens and militia-
men gathered there. Your victory has won them the
day and saved Carass (regain 1 LucK point and add 1
point to your HONOUR score). Undoubtedly you have
also set Belgaroth’s plans back somewhat. Unfortu-
nately, you have to turn down the citizens’ kind offers
of hospitality as you had planned to get beyond
Carass before nightfall. However, the townspeople
insist on giving you a new sword if you have no
weapon, as well as enough Provisions for 5 meals
and a purse containing 20 Gold Pieces. You also
receive the attentions of a physician (restore up to 5
points of stamina). Those members of the militia
who are left are more than willing to fight for you
should you want them to, if you are recruiting your
own force to take on Belgaroth’s troops (write down
the word ‘Ecrof’ on your Adventure Sheet if you want
to take them with you).

SSS —_V6C0c_e_cc CC !]|||__aa_-_
102

Leaving Carass, you turn off the road and head south,
following a track into the hills in the direction of Caer
Skaal. If you have the word ‘Ecrof’ written down on
your Adventure Sheet, turn to 306. If you do not, turn
to 2.

102

The start of the track into the woods is marked by two
stone posts; it does not look as if the path has seen much
traffic recently. The landlady also told you that the
villagers leave Herluin alone and that some say he talks
to the woodland creatures. As you guide Firemane
along the path between the trees, you become aware of
the fact that the further you go, the less birdsong you
can hear. At last you enter a clearing, which is completely
silent, where you find the sage’s simple round stone cell,
built as two storeys. Disturbingly, you see that no
smoke is rising from the chimney on a cold Close day
such as this, You knock on the cell’s sturdy door but get
no reply. You knock again and call out to the sage, but
to no avail. Trying the door, you discover that it is
unlocked. You sense that something is very wrong here.
Will you enter the cell (turn to 26) or leave the wood
and Wendeford as quickly as possible (tum to 49)?

1045-105

103
A Banshee is an undead spirit that has been trapped on
this plane in such a hideous form as punishment for some
horrific crime committed when it was alive. As you
pronounce the incantation, the Cailleach is ripped from
this world to its final resting place with a hellish scream
(Write down the word ‘Eehsnab’ on your Adventure
Sheet.) Now, if you came here from paragraph 175, turn
to 316. If you came from paragraph 163, turn to 202.

104

At the shaman’s death, the imprisoned villagers sud-
denly become aware of what is going on and in
desperate panic try to free themselves. However, many
are exhausted or too weak to be of much help to
themselves. If they do not get free soon, either the
Wicker Man will catch alight or the Beast Men will
break through the ring of fire surrounding you. Taking
hold of a pole, you start to climb the precarious
structure. If you suffer from the Fear of Heights, Test
your Skill, adding 2 to the dice roll. If you fail, after
climbing several metres you are overcome by dizziness
and, losing your grip, fall from the funeral pyre outside
the blazing barrier (turn to 265). If you succeed, or if
you are not afflicted with this fear, turn to 192.

105
Hurriedly, you make the necessary arcane gestures to
banish the ghost, The dead knight lets out a baleful
shriek, and both it and its phantom mount fade away
before your very eyes. Turn to 356.

106—108

106
Dazed, you tum as a figure drops from an opening in
the ceiling. It is a man dressed in the garb of a
labourer and wearing a dyed green hood that covers
his face completely, with just two eye-holes cut in it.
In one hand the man is holding a chain with a spiked
ball on one end of it. Yelling, he attacks you. For the
duration of this battle you must reduce your Attack
Strength by 1 point because of the blow on your head.

HOODED ATTACKER SKILL 8

Every time your opponent wins an Attack Round, roll
one dice. On a roll of 1-4, the spiked ball does the
usual 2 STAMINA points of damage. However, on a
roll of 5-6 the weapon hits you hard and causes 3
points of damage to your STAMINA. If you reduce the
man’s STAMINA to 2 points or less, you can either try
to question him as to why he attacked you (turn to
235) or finish him off (turn to 354).

STAMINA &

107
Suddenly your mind is filled with terrible thoughts
and evil desires. Although you try to resist the corrupt-
ing influence of the Chaos Rune, it is all in vain. Your
armour blackens and tarnishes under the rune’s tainting
power, as does your heart. You will become Belga-
roth’s new champion and lead his inhuman hordes
against the Citadel. Ruddlestone is doomed!

108
You are unable to break the vines holding you. The
root-like growths shape themselves into a grotesque,

109

thory humanoid, several metres tall, whose emerald
eyes glow with evil malevolence. The manifestation
reaches for you with great tendrilled hands. Your
blood shall give the Darkthorn new strength.

109

The passage opens into a huge vaulted chamber in
which countless coffins are resting. You are horrified
to see that every one of the caskets has been smashed
open and desecrated. As you survey this scene of
devastation, a glowing, ghostly shape begins to materi-
alize in the middle of the vault. If you have the Banish
Spirit Special Skill, and you wish to use it, tum to 63.
Otherwise, will you flee from this chamber {return to
243 and choose somewhere else to explore), or will
you prepare to fight (turn to 304)?

110

At the far end of the hall a grotesque, bloated Beast
Man, covered in thick matted fur and with two goat-
like horns growing from his head, is sprawled on a
carved wooden chair. The creature is clad only in a
loin-cloth and two armoured shoulder-pads, while
round its neck hangs a Chaos Talisman. This is the
Beast Men’s chaotic leader, Murgrim the Cruel. Well
does he deserve that name, for at his command count-
less settlements have been put to the torch and the
blood of hundreds of innocents spilt. At the moment he
is enjoying torturing a group of prisoners who hang,
suspended by their wrists from an iron chain, over a
large fire. The chain passes through a pulley, fixed to a
roof-beam, and its other end is wound round a wooden
drum. Murgrim is gradually letting the capstan off a
notch at a time, slowly lowering the prisoners towards
the flames, In a far corner of the hall is a large cage,
completely covered by a black drape. Drawing your
weapon, you run across the hall. Grabbing a double-
headed battle-axe, the Chaos Beast Lord rises from his
chair and prepares for combat

MURGRIM SKILL 10 STAMINA 11

If you win, turn to 242.

111
Among a heap of scrolls and charts you find a piece of
vellum with a message written on if in black ink in an
untidy scrawl. It reads as follows:

The clerics continue to pursue their dark designs,
weakening the elemental forces of the forest by their
112

actions. The fools! They are upsetting the natural order
in the land. I have discovered that their temple is
somewhere near Havalok. But I fear that they have a
spy in Wendeford — Master Graye, the miller. I must
summon help to stop their evil machinations.

This note gives you another line of enquiry to follow.
Do you want to look for the miller (turn to 74) or will
you ignore Herluin’s suspicions and continue searching
his cell (turn to 274)?

112

Having dismounted and tethered Firemane to a tree
stump, you make your way to the source of the glinting.
Standing between the trees, half hidden in the under-
growth, is the moss-covered stone statue of an armoured
warrior. The quality of the stonework has been slightly
wor by the passage of time, but you can still make out
the attention to detail paid by the sculptor, The realism
of the warrior’s sword and armour, and the tension in
the muscles of the figure, could almost make you believe
that the statue was once a real man who had been turned
to stone. Resting on the warrior’s arm is a shield which
catches the sunlight on its battle-scarred surface; on the
shield is the faded design of a Dragon, painted gold.
Pulling away weeds and tall grasses from its base, you
can just make out two inscriptions carved into the stone.
The first is in the Common Tongue but the second is in
some strange munic script you do not recognize.

HERE STANDS A MONUMENT TO CANDRAZ
NTRT BitY4e PSL RY TE ThMAADY

115-114

THE BOLD WHO DIED IN THIS THE FOURTH
MNE 14T4 ONE 1494 FY INES ANT BBLAIN

YEAR OF THE REIGN OF QUEEN VAXILLIA THE
CTHA LE INT ATEVY ER YLITY ARYEAAEE INT

JUST. MAY THE DRAGON KEEP SAFE HIS OWN
$L¥do MPY INT ARTVEd VITA StAt NZ BAGO

Before continuing through the forest do you want to
try to take the shield (turn to 55) or will you leave it
where it is (turn to 3573)?

113
You strike out at the double, but for every blow you
land it lands one of even greater force. There is
nothing you can do as the monster steadily beats you
to the ground. The last thing you ever see is your
own face, horribly distorted and smiling, as the fatal
blow strikes you. Your adventure is over

114
With a shout, you kick your heels into Firemane’s
flanks. The horse whinnies and leaps forward into the
crowd, Driving your mount forward, you charge past
the startled protesters. As you flee, however, you are
struck by a pike {lose 2 STAMINA points). Soon you
are well past the angry mob, but you acted dishonour-
ably towards the starving people (lose 1 HONOUR
point). Wasting no more time, you continue south-
wards; turn to 200.

115-116

115

Hurriedly you help Torrin to secure and barricade all
the entrances to the forge. Two windows are left
unprotected, so you take up positions next to them.
Roll one dice and add i to the number rolled to find
out how many Hellhounds try to enter through the
window you are guarding. Because you are defending
a small opening, you may increase your Attack
Strength by 1 point during the Hellhounds’ assault,
and only one monster can attack you at a time. Each
beast has the attributes: sKILL 7, STAMINA 6; at the
end of each Attack Round, on a roll of 1 or 2 on one
dice you are burnt for 1 additional stAMINA point of
damage. Before you fight each of the demonic dogs,
you may use one — only one — of the following (if you
have them): the Holy Strike Special Skill (which does
the monster 2 STAMINA points of damage), one dose
of Holy Oil, fre a crossbow once, or throw a dagger
(Test your Skill, deducting 2 from your sk1LL score if
you do not have the Target Special Skill; if you
succeed, the dagger does 2 STAMINA points of
damage). This battle will be a hard one. If you defeat
all your opponents, turn to 24.

116
‘Ssso, mortal. You may be able to overcome my
minions, but you will never destroy me. I wasss
exsspelled from my grave by the foul sssicknesss that
isss in the land, Now none can ssslay me.’ You were
tight. It is the power of Chaos that has restored the
Necromage and mutated his body while in the sar-
cophagus. The sorcerer stalks towards you, ready to

417-118

use his decaying hands as weapons. If you have the
Fear of Spiders, for the duration of this battle you
must reduce your Attack Strength by 1 point because
of the Necromage’s arachnid form.

CADAVER SKILL 10

If the Undead Lord wins two consecutive Attack
Rounds, tur immediately to 56. If you win, turn to

199.

STAMINA 12

117

You stand with your sword poised mere centimetres
from the champion’s throat and claim victory as yours.
‘Very well,’ says Stromn. ‘I would trust such a warrior
as you to lead my men into battle. I only ask that you
give us a little time to ready ourselves for such an
important campaign.” You agree to meet Stronn and
his mercenary band at the deserted outpost of Harn-
watch in one day's time. (Write the word ‘Ecrof’ on
your Adventure Sheet.) Secure in the knowledge that at
least you will now have others fighting for you against
the Dread Lord's forces, you prepare to leave Havalok,
Turn to 314.

118
Taking the orb from your pack, you raise it above
your head, hoping somehow to release its power
Belgaroth gives a short laugh at the sight of the
artefact and, raising his palms in your direction, un-
leashes a dark bolt of energy at you. The Crystal Orb
once belonged to a Black Sorcerer and it amplifies the
effects of any dark magicks used in its presence. As a

Se SS  ——OOE——E—EEE———————_E_=——————EEE..S. Ss

119-421

result, Belgaroth’s bolt strikes you with devastating
effect, charting the flesh from your bones, Your adven-
ture is over.

119
The book is written in a language that you do not
understand. If you have the Arcane Lore Special Skill,
turn to 203; if you do not, turn to 66.

120
Belgaroth whistles shrilly and the Night-mare desists
from its attack. The beast flies up to the flat-topped
tower; the Dread Lord mounts his demonic winged
steed and, although you mun up the staircase, you are
too late to stop the warmonger taking to the air and
making his escape. By the time you reach the roof he
is out of range of bows and spears. Belgaroth must be
fleeing in order to lead his army against the Citadel.
You cannot let him get away, but how on Titan are
you going to pursue him now? If you have a Golden
Feather, you know what to do with it. Convert the
name you have to say into a number, using the code
A=1,B=2,C =3...Z = 26, Add the numbers
corresponding to the letters in the name together,
multiply the tota] by the number of times you have to
say the name, then tum to that paragraph. If you do
not have a Golden Feather and do not know what to
do here, turn to 210.

124
Hurriedly you search the man’s body; however, you
find nothing but a small charm carved out of a dark

122

wood in the shape of a raven, a bird of ill-omen. On
the bodies of the other two murderers you find 3 Gold
Pieces. As night has fallen, you decide that it is time to
head for Havalok. Turn to 241

422
As you cross the hall, you hear a terrible moan;
fearfully, you spin around to discover its source, Sitting
in the larger chair, stumped over the table in a pool of
blood, is a semi-transparent figure that glows with a
faint phosphorescence, The figure raises its head and
sits upright. Horrified, you recognize your dead friend
and fellow Templar, Sir Connor of Achenbury. The
terrible injuries he suffered at the hands of the Orc
Wolf-Riders are all too apparent and several arrows
still protrude from his blood-soaked tunic. Connor's
ghost turns to face you and his dead eyes give you a
piercing stare. I bring you a warning,’ he intones, You
stand frozen to the spot and listen to what your dead
friend has to say. “There is a traitor, known only as the
Raven, among those who claim fealty to the king. The
Raven will betray you. Speak the traitor’s true name to
reveal the truth...’ Connor’s ghost fades away, his
message passed on. Regain 1 LUCK point for receiving
this warning and write down the word ‘Rotiart’ on
your Adventure Sheet, then turn to 14.

ee

123
You pay the old woman (deduct 5 Gold Pieces from
your Adventure Sheet) and she gestures for you to go
through a curtained doorway, At the end of a short
corridor is an omate wooden door; on it is the symbol
of an eye inside a triangle, made out of polished brass.
You open the door and step into the chamber beyond,
You find yourself standing in a large room laid with a
plush red carpet with the sare esoteric symbols you
saw outside the shop embroidered into it; it is lit by
candles positioned at regular intervals round the
mahogany-panelled walls. Sitting opposite you, on a
gilded high-backed chair, is a beautiful, pale-skinned
young woman with long black hair, wearing flowing
robes and a circlet of silver round her head as well as
numerous silver charms on necklaces, Hanging on the
wall behind her chair are two wall-hangings represent-
ing two Cards of Divination: the Cup of Fortune and
the High Priestess, meaning hidden secrets. On the
wall above the chair is a larger version of the brass
triangle and eye — the symbol of the Third Eye
Sweet-smelling smoke rises from two incense-burers
that hang from the ceiling on either side of the chair,
and to the woman's left is a stone bowl containing a
pool of water. The effect of the decorations and
objects in the room is to create an atmosphere of
mystery and magic. ‘I have been expecting you, Tem-
plar,, the woman announces without warning. ‘I am
the Mistress of the Sight, a diviner granted the powers
of clairvoyance by the gods, just as my mother before
me and her mother before her. 1 know of your quest
and may be able to help you gain vital information.

124

Through the scrying pool you could try to spy on
the Dark Tyrant and his forces, or perhaps you would
prefer to see your own future in the cards. The
choice is yours.’ Will you spy on Belgaroth (turn to
36) or find out what the cards have to reveal (turn
to 277)?

124
You are inside a room that spans the whole width of
the Juggernaut. As you step through the door, you
are hit by a tremendous blast of heat. A number of
chained slaves are shovelling fuel into the huge, de-
monic iron mouth of a furnace; they are encouraged
to work harder by an armour-clad Ogre overseer
carrying a bullwhip, The searing heat in the chamber
is so oppressive that you break out in beads of sweat,
while several of the prisoners look as if they are about
to collapse from exhaustion. You must do what you
can to help these poor people, so you attack the
Ogre

OGRE OVERSEER SKILL 9 STAMINA 10

Because of its armour. you must reduce the damage
done to the Ogre by your weapon by 1 point. If the
Ogre wins an Attack Round, roll one dice. On a roll of
6 the whip wraps round your weapon and, though it
does you no harm, it pulls the weapon out of your
grasp; you must fight on with your sxiLL reduced by
3 points. If you win the battle, you may recover your
weapon and, having freed the grateful prisoners and
told them the way to escape, leave the furnace-room.
Tum to 3124

125-126

125
The feast over, you retire to a luxurious room for the
night; you wake up at sunrise, rested and invigorated
(restore up to 4 STAMINA points and add 1 day to the
Time Elapsed). A guide and escort of two soldiers are
already waiting for you when you descend from your
room. Firermane has been saddled and has also recov-
ered from the previous day’s ride. It does not take
long for you to reach the edge of the forest and,
leaving tilled fields behind, you enter the ancient,
shadowy tangle of trees. Your guide keeps you on an
almost completely overgrown path until you reach a
fork in the track, then he stops. “This is the last place
where the monster was seen, he says. ‘It turned on a
soldier and left him terribly wounded. We will go no
further. From here you're on your own,’ You stare at
the two soldiers, but they try to avoid your gaze and
shift uneasily in their saddles. With an exasperated
sigh you decide which route to take. If you have the
Tracking Special Skill, turn to 309. If you do not, will
you take the left (turn to 385) or the right fork (turn
to 291)?

126

Following the tunnel into the caves, eventually you
enter a low cavern. As you make your way across
it, you hear a loud hissing sound and your lantern
ilhaminates a mass of slithering bodies. Dozens of
snakes cover the chamber floor and many look as
if they could be poisonous. Do you suffer from the
Fear of Snakes? If you do, turn to 252; otherwise, turn
to 300.

——
127-128

127
‘So you're the traitor, Lord Taris Varen!’ you shout
before the bird has time to leave the chamber. Belga-
roth freezes, and you stagger away from him to catch
your breath. The raven lets out an agonized squawk
and drops to the ground as if stunned. What you
witness next is terrible to behold, The raven grows in
size and changes shape, its legs becoming longer and
its tail retracting into its body as Lord Varen resumes
his natural human form. Belgaroth granted him the
Enchantment of Transformation, giving him the ability
to shapechange at will. However, because you have
broken the spell, Varen no longer has control over the
charm and the transformation does not go as smoothly
as it should. Standing in front of you is a hideous
mutant. Varen has regained his human form except
that, in place of his right arm, a huge black wing
sprouts from his shoulder and his left leg is that of a
bird, while his head is part-human, part-raven, with an
ugly black beak. T’ll kill you for this, croak!’ Varen
squawks as he stumbles towards you, consumed by an
enraged madness, As you prepare to fight the mutant,
you glimpse Belgaroth making his escape through the

archway.

RAVEN SKILL 7 STAMINA 8

If you kill the vile traitor, turn to 176.

128
Well now you know what killed Herluin. He must have
tried to summon the Demon in order to find out more
about Belgaroth and the Chaos Knights. Return to 166.

129

129
Remembering your gift from the Guardian Elves, an
idea forms in your mind. It is just a hunch but, as the
doors are made of wood, maybe the sap from the
mysterious ancient forest will have some effect. Uncork-
ing the ornate bottle, with its glass reliefs of leafy
stems, you pour the oozing milky-white liquid on to
the doors. The sap slowly soaks into the old dead
planks and, as it does so, something incredible happens.
With a stretching sound, fresh green shoots burst from
the doors as the dark wood remembers that it was
once a living tree. Creaking loudly, the doors contort,
individual planks forming into gnarled trunks as the
raw elemental energy surging from the sap gives the
ancient wood renewed life. The growing doors split
apart as they break through the walls of the castle,
leaving the way into Belgaroth’s throne room, and the
inner sanctum of the Order of the Knights of Chaos,
open

The throne room is circular, lit by torches round the
walls, with the Rune of Chaos laid into the floor of the
chamber in polished black granite. Banners of the
Fortress of the Skull and the Chaos Knights adorm the
walls, and on the far side of the room is a high-backed
throne of black wood. In the centre of the room stands
a ring of black-armoured knights who are completely
silent and motionless. At their head, standing before
the throne, is a huge man clad in full, shining black,
platemail armour. His horned helmet has been fash-
:oned to look like a skull, while bands of metal across
nis breastplate resernble a ribcage. The armour is also

oo
130

covered with spikes and demonic sigils, picked out in
red tracery, while a long cloak the colour of night is
fastened round the knight's shoulders. This can only
be Belgaroth, the Dread Lord, himself. When you
made your peculiar entrance, the warlord seemed to be
talking to a large black bird perched next to his
throne, However, he now tums and the burning coals
of his eyes fix you with a stare full of hatred and fury.
With a wordless command from their liege, the Elite
Order of the Knights of Chaos, resurrected from the
dead, turn as one and: advance towards you across the
throne room. If you know five Words of Power and
dare to utter them here, speak them backwards now. If
you do not know such an incantation, or if you do not
want to use it, turn to 276,

130
The ride south is uneventful since the road Passes
through cultivated fields, then on to barren moorland.
To the east lies the sprawling expanse of ancient
woodland that is so bound up in legend. It is said that
objects made from wood taken from its trees retain some
of the elemental magical energies of the forest and that
Elves, as well as stranger creatures, dwell within its
depths, keeping it from harm. The road gradually swings
towards the trees and you enter a narrow wooded
stretch. Suddenly a rope that was spanning the road is
jerked up from under its cover of leaves on the ground
and is pulled taut. You are galloping straight towards it,
Test your Skill, adding 2 to the dice roll if you do not have
the Ride Special Skill. If you succeed, you duck under the
rope just in time; turn to 205. If you fail, turn to 78.

131-132

131
Carefully you reach into the coffin and slide the ring
from the knight's finger. Test your Skill, If you are
successful, you take the ring without disturbing the
mould. IF you fail you knock the body while removing
the ring and a second spore-cloud is released (lose 2
STAMINA points unless you have the word ‘Eugalp’
written down on your Adventure Sheet, in which case
you must lose 4 STAMINA points), Add the Shield
Ring to your possessions. There is nothing else for
you here, so you leave the crypt. Turn to 243 and
choose another option.

132
As Firemane trots across the clearing, scores of the
orange fungi burst open, releasing their spores into the
air, Before you know it, you have inhaled a great
lungful of the spores and you begin to cough violently
‘lose 2 STAMINA points). Quickly you steer Firemane

ee

133-135

towards the edge of the clearing. However, more
worryingly, as the spores come into contact with your
armour, the metal starts to corrode, turing to rust,
You have fallen foul of a fungus known as Ironbane
Roll one dice: this is the number of pieces of armour,
weapons or metal objects, such as your lantern (but
not including Gold Pieces), that both you and Firemane
are carrying that turn to rust. Cross pieces of equip-
ment totalling that number off your Adventure Sheet.
Away from the spore cloud, you lead Firemane round
the edge of the treacherous clearing. Turn to 8.

133
Refusing to help the people of Ennox was a selfish and
dishonourable act (lose 1 HONOUR point). Jeering, the
villagers drive you out of town, waving pitchforks and
hurling rotten vegetables in your direction. Tum to

S52.

134

The landlady tells you that years ago the surrounding
hamlets and farmsteads were terrorized by a monstrous
wild boar which lived within the borders of the Forest
of Lein. Eventually it was tracked down by Felder the
Hunter and his pack of legendary hounds, was trapped
in a staked pit and slain. Now will you ask her where
you can find Herluin the Sage (turn to 362) or ask her
about any local rumours (turn to 268), or will you
leave the Bristling Boar and Wendeford (turn to 49)?

135
You explain to the old woman that you mean her no

135

harm, and she soon calms down. T thought you'd
come ‘ere to turn me out of me ‘ome,’ she says, ‘but
seeing as ‘ow you ‘aven’t, perhaps you'd take shelter
tor the night.’ You gratefully accept the crone’s invita-
tion, and she provides you with a meal of spit-roast
rabbit (regain up to 3 STAMINA points). As you eaf,
the old woman rambles on about her life in these
‘onely hills and tells you that she can concoct potions
to cure almost anything ‘I could rid you of your worst
fears even, although for that I’d need special ingredi-
ents: the moss from a dead man’s scalp taken by
moonlight, the tongue of a Cockatrice and a Banshee’s
tooth.’ If you suffer from a fear and want to take the
old crone up on this offer, turn to 51. If you do not,
you turn in for the night and, at dawn, leave the cave
and its strange occupant (add 1 day to the Time
Elapsed and turn to 379).

ee ro EES

137-138

Your quest is of great importance, and if you are
worthy to attain Aelfgar then some perils you will
face will be lessened. However, if we are to help you,
we must know that you intend the forest only good,’
If you have a twisted staff, turn to 325. If you do not,
turn to 194.

137
The track that leads into the southern mound looks
both well used and as if something has travelled along
it recently. Now, having lit your lantern, will you
enter the mound to the:

North? Turn to 95
South? Turn to 175
West? Tum to 350

138
His Elite Knights may be dead once more, but the
Dread Lord still lives. Standing before his throne is
Belgaroth, the Dark Tyrant, the Usurping Serpent, the
Iron Fist, the Warmonger of Caer Skaal, Lord of Havoc
and servant of the Dark Lords of Chaos. 'So, you are
the Templars’ champion, Belgaroth says with a gut-
tural snarl. His voice alone fills you with foreboding.
‘You have caused me much aggravation, but your
Progress to my fortress has been observed every step
of the way. Do not think that I am unprepared. You
will merely be the first of thousands to die — or will
you tum from Telak and join my Knights of Chaos?’
What can he mean? {Is Belgaroth a fool? You would
never betray your holy order or your kingdom — at

|

|

139

least, not of your own free will. A thought suddenly
crosses your mind. Your eyes drop to the floor and
you realize in horror where you are standing: in your
struggle with the undead Chaos Knights, you have
strayed into the pattern of the Chaos Rune set into the
flagstones. Belgaroth mutters a few words under his
breath, invoking its power. Roll one dice and add 7
(add 2 more points if you are carrying a moon shield).
If the total is less than or equal to your HONOUR
score, tum to 218. If the total is greater than your
HONOUR score, turn to 1o7.

139
Having made a few discreet enquiries, eventually you
find yourself outside the impressive headquarters of
the Mercenaries’ Guild, the best place to recruit an
army. The tall stone building itself looks like a small
fortress, the entrance being barred by a portcullis.
After you have ming the bell next to the door, a
hunchbacked figure appears at the window above the
portcullis and asks you your business. You explain
your desire to assemble an anny of brave fighters and
are soon standing before the Guildmaster, Nasra
Stronn, and a crowd of rough-looking, battle-scarred
tuffians. ‘So, you want to hire an army, but you
haven't got the money to pay us,’ Stronn booms. The
mercenaries burst into raucous laughter.

‘But your bravery and heroism would go down in
legend, you say. ‘This is no petty dispute between
tival lords but a battle against the very forces of Evil
and Chaos, the outcome of which will determine

TE ee

136

You have avenged the death of your friend, Connor
the Templar (add 1 to your HONOUR score), The Ores
possess nothing of any use to you, so you set off
again. With a thud, a white arrow embeds itself in a
tree next to you. The shaft is engraved with runes that
you cannot read but which you know are Elven in
origin. Six slender, white-haired figures almost melt
out of the forest, their bows trained on you. These are
the Guardian Elves of the Forest of Lein who patrol
and tend the ancient woodland. ‘Stranger,’ says one of
the Elves, ‘what are you doing so far into the forest?’
be aie } . § is The Guardian Elves of Lein are unerring servants of
Pind Se pans! ha a Good so you have nothing to lose in telling them of
AS pranlanse fe 7, Bras your encounter with the Orcs, your quest and your
Ss 3 search for Aelfgar. ‘Come with us,’ says the Elf. Dis-
mounting, you lead Firemane through the trees, follow-

ing the Elves.

You have not gone far when you find yourself standing
at the edge of a grove of trees which is beautiful
beyond description. On the far side of the lush lawn,
which is covered with bright flowers even at this time
of year, stands a six-sided plinth of pure white stone,
engraved with what you suspect are prayers. You are
greeted by a female Elf who possesses an almost
unearthly beauty, long flowing white hair, pale skin
and large, deep-green eyes. The leader of the EIf patrol
relays to her what you have told him, then she
addresses you. “Templar, [ am Elaina, Sorceress-Priest-
ess of the Guardian Elves of Lein. The times are
troubled indeed and our beloved forest is sickening.

ee, | ee

140-141

the fate of the kingdom, if not of the Old World
itself! Think of the honour and prestige. Such rewards
are worth far more than mere gold,’

The mercenaries are silent. After a moment's thought,
Stronn speaks again: ‘I still don’t understand why the
Warriors of Telak aren't prepared themselves — but
that’s not my concern. All right, we'll join your crusade
if you can prove your own skill as a warrior, You
must best our champion in combat.’ Will you agree to
these terms and fight (turn to 53), or will you leave
the Mercenaries’ Guild, and Havalok itself, and con-
tinue on your quest (turn to 314)?

140

At first the creatures recoil at the sight of the talisman,
but then their attitude of fear becomes one of fury and
the plant-like humanoids leap at you. You have no
choice but to draw your weapon and defend yourself.
Turn to 18.

141
Hurriedly, you make the signs and mutter the words
that will banish your supernatural assailant. As you
complete your incantation, the ghostly hand drops the
dagger to the ground and dissolves into the cold
night air. If you wish, you may take the dagger (if you
do so, add it to your Adventure Sheef). The Assassin's
Dagger is a favourite weapon of vindictive practition-
ers of the occult. Someone obviously knows about
your quest and does not want you to complete it, but
you have halted their evil scheme, for now at least

142-143

(regain 1 LUcK point), The rest of the night passes
without incident, and at dawn you are on your way
again {add 1 day to the Time Elapsed and restore 2
STAMINA points). Turn to 285

142

At the foot of the escarpment on the eastern side of
the castle, hidden behind scrubby bushes and boulders,
you find a small cave mouth and, beyond that, a rocky
tunnel leading into the hill beneath the fortress. Per-
haps the tunnel was made by the crusaders, a century
ago. Whoever dug it out, it should take you into the
castle dungeons. Do you want to explore the passage-
way further (tur to 167) or would you rather return
to the gatehouse and enter that way (tum to 363)?

143
You rain blow after blow upon the monster, but to no

effect: all you manage to do is prevent it striking you.
Suddenly some of the thorns fly from its body directly
at you. Roll one dice and add 2. This is the number of
thorns that hit you, each one inflicting 1 STAMINA
point of damage. Unable to injure the creature in the
usual way, will you now use:

The Holy Strike Special Skill? Turn to 239
The Banish Spirit Special Skill? Turn to 260
A Cleric’s Talisman? Tum to 28
The potion Witherwell? Turn to 41

If you can use none of these, the Darkthorn grabs you
with one huge tendrilled hand and crushes the life out
of you. Your adventure ends here

1447147

144
The silver-tipped spear sails past Belgaroth’s head
Laughing cruelly, he releases his dark bolt of energy. it
slams into your chest, knocking you from your mount’s
back, into oblivion.

145
You try to throw yourself out of the path of the

crushing hoofs but are just too late. The horse hits
you in the back, knocking you to the floor (lose 3
STAMINA points). Ignoring you, the ghostly knight
urges its mount towards the king, raising its weapon,
ready to strike. You must act quickly. Will you:

Use the Banish Spirit Special Skill, if

you have it? Turn to 105
Use the Holy Strike Special Skill, if

you have it? Turn to 303
Attack the ghost? Tum to 255

146

As you dash under the Juggernaut to get to the ladder
there is a rumbling sound above you and a mass of
red-hot ash drops down a chute, hitting the ground
with a shower of sparks. Some of this waste from the
siege-engine hits you and you cry out in agony as you
are terribly bumt (lose 5 STAMINA points). Turn to
220

147
As the horseman approaches, you see that he is wear-

ing the livery of the Lord of Cleeve Manor. When he

148

is within ear-shot he reins in his horse and calls out to
you. ‘I have been sent by my lord to offer you the
hospitality of Cleeve Manor and to request your aid,’
he says. “My lord has heard of your quest and thought
that you would appreciate a more restful night. There
is also a more serious matter, for which we would be
most grateful of your help. The tenants on the manor’s
lands are being terrorized by a rogue boar from the
forest. Our best soldiers have tried to kill it, but all
have failed. Some say that the beast is enchanted and
cannot be slain. Will you help us?’ A night in a bed
would certainly be very refreshing, and you have
pledged to keep order in the kingdom. However, such
an expedition will take up valuable time. Will you go
with the messenger to Cleeve Manor (turn to 325) or
will you press on and try to reach Havalok before
nightfall (turn to 191)?

148

The villagers cheer at your announcement. You must
act tonight so as to save time and protect Assart from
the cursed twilight existence of the undead. If you
have the Battle Tactics Special Skill and want to try to
organize the villagers into a small fighting force, turn
to 224. If you do not have that Special Skill, or if you
do not want to use it, turn to 5.

149
Hacking your way among the enemy, you suddenly

break through their lines and are confronted by a
scene that makes your blood boil with fury! The
bodies of your companions litter the ground in front
of one of the Beast Man warriors. The creature is
almost three metres tall, with a wolf-like head, dagger-
length fangs and a row of long spines projecting from
the top of its skull and down its back. It has huge
muscular arms that end in great clawed hands; in one
of them it is gripping the broken axle-shaft of a war-
chariot with one wheel still attached and ending in a
vicious curved blade. [ron chains are bound round the
Beast Man’s torso, and hanging from a belt are the
heads of previous opponents, In the midst of its battle-
frenzy, the foul Chaos spawn swings its weapon at
you.

BEAST MAN CHAMPION skKiLL 12 STAMINA 14

If the Champion hits you with the sickle-blade from
the war-chariot, the implement will inflict 3 points of
damage to your STAMINA, If you defeat this terrifying
adversary, tum to 236.

150
You explain to the villagers that the Templars are not
‘snoopers’ but protectors of the citizens of Ruddlestone.
In fact, at this very moment you are on an arduous
mission to defend the kingdom and its people from an
evil tyrant whose return would bring bitter war and
destruction.

151-152

There's already corruption in the land,’ the spokesman
replies. “Many of our crops have failed this year
because of the blight brought to these parts by a
ternble monster. Everyone lives in fear of it, for its
breath either paralyses or kills anything it touches, If
you're our protector, you'll root out the Cockatrice
and slay itf Again his companions mumble in agree-
ment. Will you agree to help these people (tum to 73)
or will you leave Ennox and press on with your
pormary quest (turn to 133)?

151
Picking up a large stone, you throw it just outside the
circle of light thrown by the torches. Hearing the
noise, the guard suddenly becomes alert. You throw
another stone, and the Beast Man leaves his past to
investigate. Quickly you creep towards the opening in
the stockade. Test your Skill, If you succeed, the guard
does not hear you (turn to 247), If you fail, you do not
move quietly enough and the guard hears you (tum
to 386).

152
Hearing shouts of ‘Make way for the Watch!’ you find
yourself surrounded by a patrol of the town guard
who overcome the felons and clap them in irons.
Having heard your explanation, the Captain of the
Watch thanks you profusely for your help in catching
the thieves and says that all the stolen goods will be
returned to their rightful owners (add 1 point to your
HONOUR score), He also gives you a reward of 8 Gold
Pieces and says that you will always be welcome in

153-155

Havalok. However, time is pressing and you can
remain here no longer. Turn to 45.

153
The carvings on the walls around you suddenly distort
and transform into hundreds of screaming human faces.
Their anguished features fill your vision and their
wailing all but deafens you. These are the poor souls
held in perpetual torment by the Necromancer’s dark
powers to be his slaves. Then everything is as it
should be again. However, you are disturbed by this
experience and while you remain in the Sepulchre you
must reduce your SKILL by 1 point, Turn to 243.

154
You charge towards the prophets, and immediately
the crowd are upon you. Roll one dice. If you roll 1-2,
turn to 183; 3—4, turn to 298; 5-6, turn to 64.

155
You cannot help but sit down in the chair and rest
your weary body. Clasps immediately snap shut, trap-
ping your wrists and ankles, while another closes
round your neck and one round your waist. Instantly
you are jolted free from the mind-dulling effect of the
voices, but it is too late. There is nothing you can do
as hidden mechanisms in the chair are triggered and
whirr into action. Sharp blades and pointed spikes
emerge from the device and move ever closer to your
immobile body. You will soon discover why this
device is called the Throne of Agony.

156-159

156
You manage to keep your seat in the saddle and guide
your steed round the hazard. You soon catch up with
the desperate man and cut him down easily. Turn to
121.

157
As you chase after the High Priest, a manic Initiate
bars your way, Armed with a long, black thorn, she is
intent on revenge. You must fight her,

INITIATE SKILL 7

If the battle lasts six Attack Rounds or less, you
continue after Bryar; turn to 287. If it takes longer,
turn to 364.

STAMINA ©

158
‘There has only been the matter concerning the Great
Boar. | know about nothing else’ says Lord Varen,
‘except, of course, that the forest is a mysterious place,
controlled by ancient elemental forces and by Elves.’
Turn to 82

159
Dusk falls as you ride south. Gradually, you become
aware of a sound coming from somewhere in the
distance ahead of you. As it gets louder you can hear
shouts, war-chants, terrible roaring sounds and the
thunder of hoofs on the ground. Then you can see
them coming over # tise- Belgaroth’s army. Charging
towards you is a horde of Ores, some mounted
on wolves; also Trolls, Ogres, black-clad warriors,

160-161

demonic Hellhounds and savage Beast Men. Ahead of
them ride the Chaos Knights of Caer Skaal, their
steeds mighty war-horses. Behind them, riding a de-
monic winged horse with blood-red eyes, is a shadowy
figure whom you know to be the warmongering
Dread Lord Belgaroth himself. Under the veil of night
the Usurping Serpent is leading his army towards the
Citadel. You cannot hope to overcome such incredible
odds, It will not be long before Ruddlestone is crushed
beneath the Iron Fist.

160
The strange liquid tastes strongly of wild garlic, but it
also seems to have healing properties (restore up to 4
points of lost sTAMINA). Now will you read the Jetter
(turn to 377) or leave the mill (turn to 49)?

161
Rummaging through the debris, you uncover a locked
iron box. If you have a small iron key and want to
open the box, tum to 232. If you do not have such a
key but you find one later, make a note of this
paragraph so that you can return here if you wish to
open the box. For now, turn to 274.

162

As you rise to your feet, Belgaroth strides towards
you across the throne room. ‘7 shall crush you, Tem-
plar!’ he spits vehemently. ‘Then there wil] be no one
to stop me and the prophecy will never be fulfilled!’
You just have time to ready your weapon while the
Dread Lord unsheathes his great black Runesword.
Charged with the powers of darkness, a blow from the
; ia oo ear A ; Runesword will inflict 3 points of damage to your

pm “Ve STAMINA and it will also drain 1 HONOUR point as it
taints you with the foul infection of Chaos, If your
HONOUR Score reaches zero, you will have been totally
corrupted and will come under Belgaroth’s control, to
become his new champion

BELGAROTH SKILL 12 STAMINA 17

You must reduce any damage you cause the Dread
Lord by 1 point because of his heavy plate armour.
When you do strike him, he does not bleed; instead,
his wounds ooze a vile green slime: every fibre of his
undead being is corrupted. As soon as you reduce
Belgaroth’s stAMINA score to 7 points or less, if you
have the word ‘Reggad’ written on your Adventure
Sheet, turn to 238; otherwise, turn to 251.

163
With a soul-rending scream, a hideous spectre flies at
you out of the darkness, tearing a deep gash in your
sword-arm with a clawed hand (lose 2 sTAMINAa points
and 1 SKILL point). Standing in front of you is a
ghastly undead creature which looks like a shrivelled
and stooped old woman with long matted hair and,

Ee —O—E>Ex————————E—_————ES

164-165

strangely, only one large nostri] and a single tooth. As
the hideous creature howls mournfully, you look into
its red-rimmed eyes which are filled with blazing fury
and indescribable sorrow. You are now facing the
terrible Banshee, known as the Cailleach, that haunts
the Cairns of Dunar. (Make a note of the number of
this paragraph.) If you have the Banish Spirit Special
Skill and wish to try to use it now, turn to 103. lf you
do not have it, turn to 345.

164

Although you have stopped the ethereal Wyrd, the
Mistress has obviously been shaken by the experience.
‘Dack powers are at work here. Not only does the
Usurping Serpent have physical guards, he also has
servants among the other planes. | pray that you can
overcome such terrible odds, but ] am afraid that there
is nothing more I can do for you.’ The young woman
sits down, shivering. ‘Now go.’ You do not want to
cause her further distress, so you leave ‘The Mind’s
Eye’. Turn to 248.

165
With a heaving groan, the floor of the chamber fails
away into a now clearly visible fiery pit many metres
deep, leaving only a pinnacle of rock beneath the
badge of the Templars on which you are standing.
The height makes you feel dizzy and you have to
concentrate hard on keeping your balance. There is a
beating of wings and three Imps fly out of the pit;
they have bat-like wings and barbed tails. As they
swoop down to attack you, jets of flame shoot from

166-167

their mouths. You must fight all the Fire Imps at the
same time, with your Attack Strength reduced by z
points because of your vertigo.

SKILL STAMINA
First FIRE IMP 9 4
Second FIRE IMP 8 4
Third FIRE IMP 7 5

if you defeat all three, turn to 222.

166

The owl continues to fix you with a piercing stare.
You see that a large book has been left lying open on
the desk, and next to it is another volume, bound in
red leather, that may be of interest. You may now
choose to carry out two of the following actions. (You
will be told to return to this paragraph after each
choice.) However, once you have performed two of
them, you must turn immediately to 15. Will you:

Read the large open book? Turn to 119

Take a look at the red book? Turn to 392
Make a thorough search through the

wreckage in the cell? Turn to 274
Leave immediately? Turn to 49

167
Tying Firemane's reins to a stunted tree hidden among
the shrubs, then lighting your lantern, you set off
along the tunnel. The ground slopes upwards until
you find yourself inside a small cave. On the other
side of the cave is the entrance to another tunnel, but
it is blocked by a padlocked iron gate. Coming from

168

the darkness beyond the gate, you can hear something
large moving about and grunting in the distance; there
is also a strong animal smell. Because the gate is
locked and you have no key, some other means of
opening it will have to be found if you want to
proceed further. Ironbane, if you have some, will rust
the lock and the gate itself, letting you pass. A
grenade, if you have one, used successfully will blow
the lock apart, allowing you to open the gate. Other-
wise, you will have to break the gate open with your
weapon. If you have'a smashing weapon, such as a
mace or a war-hammer, you make short work of the
problem. However, a pointed or edged weapon re-
quires greater effort to break the lock (lose 1 STAMINA
point through your exertions). If you use one of the
above methods to get past the gate, turn to 294. If
you decide against this route after all, turn to 363.

168
Cutting off one of the Cockatrice’s claws to take back
with you as proof of your victory, you leave the caves
and retum to Ennox. There, you find the group of
villagers waiting outside the local tavern, the Wild
Goose, the sign of which depicts a farmhand chasing
just such a fowl. They are startled to see you with
evidence of your conquest. ‘We didn’t think you'd
actually go through with it, says their spokesman, ‘but
you have our thanks. Maybe the Templars really are
our guardians after all.’ Add 1 to your HONOUR score
for ridding Ennox of the Cockatrice and restoring the
people's faith in your order. As a sign of their thanks,
the people give you 2 meals’ worth of Provisions and

169-170

ask if they can help you in any way in your quest
You realize that these farmers are not great fighters
and have recently suffered enough hardship, so you
ask them if they know anything concerning the EIf-
Spear, Aelfgar. ‘Legend tells of a weapon of great
power lying in one of the burial mounds of the ancient
kings, the Cairns of Dunar, half a day’s ride south-west
of here across the moors. However, I warm you, the
Caims are also said to be haunted by the Cailleach, a
terrible undead monster.’ Do you want to make this
added diversion to the burial mounds (turn to 323) or,
knowing that time is fast running out, will you stay on
the road heading south (tum to 332)?

169
The mists part momentarily to reveal jagged rocks at the
base of the gorge, hundreds of metres below. Test your
Skill, adding 2 to the dice roll. If you succeed, you manage
to control your vertigo; tum to 245. If you fail, you panic
and your head begins to spin, You lose all sense of balance
and topple from Firemane’s saddle, over the parapet of
the bridge. Your death plunge lasts several seconds,
before your body is smashed to pieces on the rocks below.

170

You are unable to keep your seat when Firemane rises
up on his hind legs. You land on top of one of the
calthrops and its vicious metal spikes dig into your
back (lose 2 STAMINA points). By the time you have
recovered yourself, the man has disappeared into the
encroaching darkness and you decide against further
pursuit. Searching the murderers’ bodies, you find 3

Lo - s lg _E

L7I—1£73

Gold Pieces but nothing more. As night has fallen,
you decide that you must now make for Havalok.
Turn to 241.

171
Ducking behind the mound, you can see your next
move. It is only a few strides to the cauldron full of oil
and, putting all your weight behind it, you manage to
tip the vessel over. Its contents gush down the slope
and collect round the base of the mound. In the
confusion that ensues, a torch falls into the river of oil:
it goes up instantly, forming a wall of fire between the
Beast Men and the mound and leaving you and the
villagers unharmed, but with the furious shaman
trapped with you. With the other Beast Men roaring
encouragement, the shaman attacks. Fight the battle as
normal but if he wins the first Attack Round, the
shaman blasts a bolt of dark energy at you which
causes 5 points of damage to your sTAMINA. After
that, he tries to rake your flesh with his talons,

BEAST MAN SHAMAN SKILL 8

If you win, turn to 104.

STAMINA 7

172
You bang on the doors, and after a few moments you
hear someone unlocking them from the other side,
then they open just a crack. Are you wearing a green
cloak and hood? If so, turn to 307; if not, turn to 225.

173
Quickly searching the body of the Giant, you find

174

nothing of interest or value, so you spur Firemane
onwards. If you have the word ‘Ecrof’ written down
on your Adventure Sheet, turn to 306. If you do not,
turn to 2.

174
Gently you tug at the stalk of one of the plants —
when it snaps in your grasp and the mushroom sends
a cloud of spores into the air. Roil one dice and divide
the number by 2 (rounding halves up). This is the
number of pieces of armour, weapons or metal objects,
such as your lantern, you are carrying at the moment
(not including Gold Pieces or any weapons carried by
Firemane) that are destroyed by the Ironbane. Cross
pieces of equipment totalling that number off your
Adventure Sheef. You decide it is not worth trying to
collect the [ronbane, so you quickly remount and leave
the clearing. Turn to 8

175

Creeping into the darkened passage, you are assailed
by a stench of decay and putrefaction. Following the
tunnel a little further, you round a bend and come
upon a circular chamber littered with bones and filth,
and smelling like an animal’s den, Hearing your ap-
proach, the inhabitant of the mound turns, dropping
the human arm it was gnawing when you arrived, and
lets out a soul-shredding wail. The grotesque thing
standing before you looks like a shrivelled and stooped
old woman with long matted hair and, strangely, only
one large nostril and a single tooth. As the hideous
creature howls mournfully, you look into a pair of red-
rimmed eyes filled with blazing fury and indescribable
sorrow. You are now facing the terrible Banshee,
known as the Cailleach, that haunts the Cairns of
Dunar. (Make a note of the number of this paragraph.)
If you have the Banish Spirit Special Skill and wish to
try to use it now, turn to 103. If you do not have it,
turn to 3.45

176
Sprinting through the archway, you race up a flight of
stone steps and on to the crumbling battlements of
Caer Skaal after Belgaroth. Night has fallen and light-
ning crackles from raging stormclouds overhead, You
know that something of a supernatural nature is taking
place. Belgaroth stands, not far from you, at the top of
another flat-roofed tower with a staircase ascending it
round its outside. The warmonger has his arms raised
to the turbulent skies as if in supplication. Against the
dark clouds you can make out an even darker shape

177

approaching at great speed on feathery red-tipped
wings. The midnight-black winged horse is one of the
demonic steeds of the Wild Hunt — a Night-mare!
Seeing you, Belgaroth shouts a command to the
Night-mare and, beating the air with fiery-tipped hoofs,
it closes in on you, ready to tear you apart with its
razor-edged teeth. There is time to use a crossbow
once, if you have one. The Hofy Strike Special Skill, if
used against the beast, will cause 2 points of damage
to its STAMINA and 1 point of damage to its SKILL

NIGHT-MARE

If you reduce the demonic Night-mare’s sTAMINA to 6
points or less, turn ta 120,

SKILL 210 STAMINA 11

177
This breastplate has saved many a warrior from other-
wise certain death. While you wear it you may reduce
by 1 point any damage done against you in battle
However, this piece of armour is also quite heavy, so
you must also reduce your Attack Strength by 1 point
during combat, Now return to 356

178-179

178

Your opponent topples backwards at your death-deal-
ing blow and falls with a crash into the gears and
clanking mechanisms of the Juggernaut, jamming its
workings. There is a terrible groaning, then something
buckles, sending cogs and metal shafts flying from
their mountings. In the confusion, warriors and guards
are running everywhere, but ignoring you. Just to
make sure that the Juggernaut will be completely
destroyed, you locate the safety valve on the boiler
and jam it shut. Having begun the destruction of the
war-machine you must flee, Test your Luck. If you are
Lucky, turn to 101, If you are Unlucky, turn to 233.

179
You manage to hold your breath before the sleep-
inducing pollen can affect you. Lunging at the man,
you deliver him a fatal blow and he slumps to the
floor, dead, You hurry outside and wait for the pollen
to disperse before re-entering the mill to investigate
further. Turn to 354.

180-182

180

As the final word begins to form on your lips, sweat
breaks out on your brow and you realize that you
cannot contain the eldritch power writhing within
you. A surge of elemental Chaos, generated as a
reaction to your charm, rushes into your body as you
stumble over the last word. In a searing explosion of
pain, tensed muscles go into spasm and sinews snap
Your adventure ends here.

181
Gasping for breath and exhausted by your struggle,
you climb back into the saddle and press on through
the night and the torrential rain. To the east you can
make out a low range of hills, but there is still no sign
of the village or the forge. Do you want to try to find
shelter in the hills (turn to 327), or will you push on in
hope of reaching your desired destination (tum to 85)?

182

You walk for several kilometres along the uneven
tunnel floors until you reach a large cave chamber
with no other exits: a dead-end. By the time you have
trudged back to the junction, you are quite tired (lose
1 STAMINA point). Having rested briefly, you take the
right-hand passage (turn to 126).

183-184

183
Feeling a sharp pain, you look down to see the
prophet representing the threat of death pulling his
scythe from your leg (lose 2 sTAMINA points). You
cannot hope to fight off all the mob, so you make
your escape. Turn fo 114

184

Dusk falls as you come in sight of the smouldering
remains of a ransacked village. In the twilight haze
you can just see that a hastily erected wooden stockade
stands at its centre. However, as you near the site you
hear a terrible din. Coming over the hill towards you a
mass of beast-headed creatures suddenly appears. The
noise is made by them banging weapons against
shields and making animal hootings, grunts and bel-
lows. Firemane snorts in excitement at the prospect of
battle. Driven by a maniacal bloodlust, the bestial
warriors charge your small force. The Beast Men's
Battle Strength is 10. (If you took four days or less to
get this far, deduct 2 points from the Beast Men's
Battle Strength.)

Now Engage in Battle. To do this, roll two dice and add

185

your army's Battle Strength. Now roll two dice and
add the Beast Men’s Battle Strength. If the tofals are
the same, deduct 1 point both from your army’s Battle
Strength and from that of your opponents, then Engage
in Battle again. If the totals are not the same, the side
which is at a disadvantage (has the lower total) must
deduct 2 points from its Battle Strength, then you
return to the top of this paragraph. If your Battle
Strength ever falls to zero or below, turn at once to 207
(make a note of this). If your enemy’s Battle Strength
ever falls to 2 or below, turn at once to 149. For now,
however, if your force has the advantage, tum to 149.
If your force has the disadvantage, turn to 67.

185

The evil servant of the Darkthorn fails to his knees at
your fatal blow and grabs your tunic. ‘So, this is how
it ends,’ he gasps. ‘You may have thwarted the Clerics
of the Darkthorn, but Belgaroth lives again. You and
all your order are now as good as dead. Curse you,
Templar! From this moment onwards, fear and dread
shall rule your life’ Then he is dead.

A sudden chill overcomes you and your mind is filled
with irrational fear Roll one dice. If you roll 2 or 2,
record the Fear of Spiders on your Adventure Sheet; on
a roll of 3 or 4, write down the Fear of Snakes; and on
a roll of 5 or 6, record the Fear of Heights. You may
have defeated an ally of the evil warlord, but you have
paid dearly for it. (Add 1 to your HONOUR score.)
Next fo Bryar’s body lies his twisted staff; it is a
curious object and you may take it if you wish. If you

186-187

were captured by Master Graye the Miller, tum to
213. If you were not, having composed yourself you
now take stock of your bearings until, after walking
several kilometres westwards, you reach the outskirts
of Havalok and retum to the deserted temple's entrance.
Turn to 219.

186

Kneeling before the altar, you feel a surge of energy
pass clean through you. Regain up to 4 STAMINA
points, 1 SkiLt point and 1 Luck point. For a moment
your hands are surrounded by fire but you feel no
heat; then the flames vanish. You have been granted
Khrizat’s Gift: you may conjure a small magical ball of
fire which will do 4 sTAMINA points of damage when
aimed against an enemy. However, you may use this
gift only once. Having been blessed, you leave the
shrine. Turn to 23.

187
Cautiously you creep across the Hoorboards towards
another shadowy doorway in the wall opposite. As
you peer into the gloom there is a swishing sound
trom above and something hard and heavy hits you
on the back of your head. If you are wearing a helmet,
turn to 25; if you are not, turn to 370.

Fue es
ater’ Se
2, :

188

The mummers are all dressed in the traditional colourful
rag robes of their profession and are re-enacting the
popular story of a knight's battle with a fire-breathing
dragon and a spiteful old hag in their own comical style.
Each of the mummers is wearing a piece of costume that
identifies him as a certain character, One has a knight's
helmet and another is wearing a pantomime horse's
head. while a third has his or ber face covered by a
witch-mask. The most remarkable costume, however, is
that of the dragon. It is wom by two people operating a
mechanism that makes the dragon’s wings flap and its
jaws snap open and shut. A short blast of flame bursts
from the creature's nostrils, causing the crowd to gasp
once again. Caught up in this display, the audience do
not notice another of the mummers dancing among
them, relieving them of their purses — but you do. You
cannot let this felony go unchallenged, so you shout
out, ‘Stop thief!’ The pickpocket looks around in horti-
fied surprise, then makes off through the crowd. You
follow in hot pursuit but find your way blocked by the
dragon. The thing spins around to face you and a jet of
fire shoots from its nostrils. Test your Luck. If you are
Unlucky, turn to 208. If you are Lucky, the flames miss
you, but only just, and you find yourself in combat with
the mummers’ dragon (turn to 328)

189
You are unable to make any sense of the wizard’s
jottings and so, deciding not to waste any more time
searching in Savant’s laboratory, you leave and take
the tunnel back to the portcullis. Turn to 222.

190
Without even thinking, you make the appropriate
gestures and utter the words to dismiss the Haunt.
The evil guardian spirit screams in pain as it is sucked
into the earth at your feet. Turn to 289

191
You are within sight of the walls of Havalok when
dusk is falling. Riding on in the fast-falling light, you
pass a copse of trees at the edge of the road. Suddenly
a dark shape drops out of the branches of one tree as
you pass by under it. Test your Luck, If you are Lucky,
tum to 38. If you are Unlucky, tur to 346.

192
Clinging on to the Wicker Man with one hand, you
start to open the cages and free the prisoners. As you
climb higher, a volley of spears and other projectiles is
launched at you from the seething throng of Beast
Men, who are howling with rage. Roll one dice. On a
roll of 1-3, a spear thuds into your back, causing you
to fall from the structure and land outside the ring of
fire (turn to 265). On a roll of 4-6, tum to 84

193
Beyond the door you find yourself in a room filled
with what is undoubtedly the clutter of a scholar,
There is a loud bang, and a cloud of dirty smoke
billows through an archway on the far side of the
toom. Coughing and spluttering, a thin, middle-aged
man, wearing scorched and well-worn robes and with
an untidy beard and shock of hair, staggers into the

193

chamber. ‘Oh, excuse me,’ he says, ‘just a minor
technical hitch. I’m sure if | heat the crucible before
adding the ... Oh, but you don’t want to hear about
that.’ The man beams at you jovially: ‘Now, what can
1 do for you?’ You mention the sign you saw on the
door. ‘Ah yes, of course,’ says Pyritees. ‘Follow me’
Leading you into his laboratory, the alchemist shows
you the potions he has for sale. Those you are most
interested in are listed below; if you buy any potions,
amend your Adventure Sheet accordingly.

Witherwell — This concoction acts on any plant like
acid, causing it to wither and die. Cost: 4 Gold Pieces

Antifoxin — An antidote to the poison of venomous
creatures such as snakes and spiders. There is enough
for two doses. Cost: 3 Gold Pieces.

Healing Draught — This elixir has the effect of restoring
STAMINA points equal to half your initial score (round-
ing fractions up). Cost: 3 Gold Pieces.

Revelation — Drinking this potion briefly heightens
your psychic and spiritual awareness as if you had the
Commune Special Skill. Cost: 6 Gold Pieces.

When you have made your purchases, Pyritees says, ‘I
don’t suppose you could help me with a problem I'm
having? Jt won't take long’ If you want to help the
alchemist, turn to 227. Alternatively, you could leave
the laboratory and try to recruit a small army (turn to
139) or leave Havalok without any further ado (tum

to 314).

194-196

194
You cannot prove to the Elves that you mean the
forest no harm. They wish you well in your quest but
swiftly escort you away from their sacred grove,
before vanishing again among the trees. You know
that you will not be able to find the grove again
because of the Elven magic that protects it, so you
hurry on your way. Turn to 278.

195
You enter the bell-tower through a small door at its
base and climb a spiral stone staircase to the top. Here
you find a square room with an arched opening in
each wall. A large iron bell is swinging on its frame in
the centre of the chamber, tolling sombrely. The only
occupants of the belfry are several large bats, hanging
upside down from the rafters. Do you want to try to
stop the bell tolling (tum to 234), or would you rather
leave the tower and search elsewhere (return to 31 and
choose another option)?

196

Your heart pounding in your chest, you utter the
terrible syllables of the incantation. As you speak the
five Words of Power, you feel their awesome might
twisting through every fibre of your being. But do
you have the physical strength to control the energies
you are about to release? Roll three dice. If the total
tolled is less than or equal to your STAMINA score,
turn to 229. If the total is greater than your STAMINA
score, turn to 180.

197-198

197
‘Wait, good people,’ you call out over the hubbub.
‘What is it that you want?’

‘We have travelled from village to village, gathering
those worthy of our cause to us,’ says the first prophet
‘We seek to petition the king, that he may give food
to the starving and healing to the sick, for is he not
the divine representative of our gods on this Earthly
Plane? The end is nigh. Our priest-king need only see
the truth, and the land shall be healed. But it is the
likes of you who keep the truth from him!’ You are
going to have to say something quite amazing to
deter the mob. Test your Skill, adding 1 to the dice roll.
If you succeed, turn to 348. If you fail, turn to 261.

198
The door is unlocked and, once through, you slam it
shut behind you. You walk along a short passageway
until you come upon a T-junction, To the left, after a
few metres, the corridor ends abruptly. To the right
you can see a heavy iron portcullis, beyond which a

OO

199-200

flight of stone steps leads upwards. Do you want to
turn left and make a thorough investigation of the
dead-end (tum to 335), or will you turn right and
inspect the portcullis (tum to 212)?

199

The Necromage lets out a deathly shriek as, with your
killing blow, his rotten flesh drops from his bones,
which dissolve into slime. Soon all that is left of the
diabolical undead sorcerer is a pool of fetid sludge.
With Cadaver dead, the tormented souls under his
control are free, and his undead army stops in its
tracks and crumbles to dust. You have won this victory
for the people of Assart! Regain 2 Luck points and
add i to your HONOUR score. Now ail that remains
for you to do is to leave the sepulchre and return to
Assart. If you have the word ‘Reggad’ written down
on your Adventure Sheet, tum to 249. If you haven't,
tum to 374.

200
The aftemoon winds on as you and Firemane head
south. While you ride along, undisturbed, you consider
the different paths that you could take that may lead to
success in your quest. The most direct form of action
will be to make your way to Caer Skaal as quickly as
possible. However, if you are going to have to face
Belgaroth’s Chaos Knights and Warriors, it may be wise
to bry to recruit your own small force as you proceed.
Aranandus’s words about the Forest of Lein also interest
you; you know that the vast expanse of woodland is a
mysterious place, protected by ancient elemental

200

powers, powers which may be able to help you in your
quest. There is also another option open to you: to find
the legendary ElfSpear, Aelfgar. Stories abut this mysti-
cal weapon pre-date the Crusade against Chaos. Forged
by the Elves of Lein, centuries ago, it is rumoured to be
imbued with the power of the gods themselves. Legends
tell how it has been wielded many times against the
forces of darkness and has saved the land from eternal
night. To find Aelfgar would be a momentous undertak-
ing but could prove to be the way to victory.

Night falls and, having tethered Firemane to a tree
stump, you settle down for the night in the shade of a
copse just off the road. With a gentle breeze blowing
through the leaves of the trees you are soon lulled to
sleep. If you have the Commune Special Skill, turn to
95. If you do not, Test your Luck. If you are Lucky,
turn to 75; if you are Unlucky, tum to 228.

201

Rallying the town’s militia, you lead them out against
the enemy. On the other side of a great gaping hole in
the south wall stands the forbidding edifice that is the
Juggernaut. Scrambling over piles of debris and rubble,
you run up a flight of steps to the battlements,
followed by your band of brave soldiers whom you
deploy along the walls. The Chaos Warriors are swarm-
ing up tall ladders to the top of the walls. With a
stifled cry, a beleaguered sentry falls at the hands of a
black-clad human. The Chaos Warrior steps over the
sentry’s body and prepares to swing his two-handed
sword at you.

CHAOS WARRRIOR SKILL 10 STAMINA 9

On a successful hit, the warrior’s weapon will cause 3
STAMINA points of damage. While fighting in such a
restricted position on the battlements, you must reduce
your Attack Strength by i point, If your adversary’s
Attack Strength is ever 22, the force of the blow he
lands causes you to lose your balance and knocks you
over the battlements to your doom, If you win, turn
to 50.

202
Dusk has fallen by the time you leave the burial
mounds. If you do not have the word ‘Eehsnab’ written
down on your Adventure Sheet, turn to 163. If you do,
you spend the night in peace, not far from the cairns,
and next day you set off feeling refreshed (restore 2
STAMINA points and add 1 day to the Time Elapsed).
Rather than return to Ennox, you set off eastwards

203-204

across the moors to rejoin the road leading south, in
an attempt to make up for lost time (turn to 60)

203

Although you do not understand the actual words,
your hours spent studying ancient treatises over the
years mean that you can work out the gist of what
you are reading. It appears to be a spell, and there is
something about ‘summoning’ and ‘assistance’. If you
want to keep reading, turn to 66; otherwise, return to
166.

204

Swiftly you make the proper arcane holy signs and
utter the words of banishment. The spectre stops, a
miasma of dark energy playing about her insubstantial
form, then she starts to laugh cruelly. Morgwyn is
using the power of dark sorcery to protect herself. A
jagged bolt of black lightning streaks from one taloned
hand and slams into your body (lose 4 STAMINA
points). If you are still alive, you draw your weapon
and prepare for combat. Tum to 29.

205

205
You are immediately surrounded by a band of ruffians,
dressed in rough clothes of brown and green. They are
armed with an assortment of weapons, ranging from
staves to daggers, and they look a motley bunch.
There is a one-eyed cut-throat, 2 woman wearing
metal-studded leather armour, a renegade monk and
their leader, a tall man whose face is hidden by a
hood. ‘A Templar, eh?’ he says in a refined accent
‘Rich pickings indeed.’ And with that the outlaws
attack. If you are still mounted, you may fight the
outlaws one at a time and add i to your Attack
Strength for the duration of the battle. If you have
been unhorsed, you must fight all your opponents
simultaneously

SKILL STAMINA
CUT-THROAT 6 5
BANDIT 7 6
RENEGADE MONK 6 7
WOLFSHEAD 8 7

If you defeat the robber band, tum to 246

206-207

206

‘Aelfgar,” Varen says with a distant Jook on his face,
The legendary spear wielded by Sir Rhyaddan against
Belgaroth's forces during the Crusade against Chaos. |
know that it) accounts written after the battle, the
whereabouts of Aelfgar becomes a mystery. However,
I do believe J] heard once of a weapon from legend
resting in the Cairns of Dunar. I am afraid that is all I
know.’ Turn to 82,

207
One by one, your brave fighters fall before the savage
Beast Men’s attack. You dispatch many of the foul
Chaos spawn until, eventually, you too are over-
whelmed by the enemy. Although you die heroically,
Ruddlestone is still doomed.

208-210

208
The scorching flames hit you fair and square, sending
you staggering back in agony {lose 4 STAMINA points).
While you are stunned, the dragon — or, rather, the
people inside the costume — charge towards you. Tum
to 328.

-

3, clas?
‘ a xt

a |

209
Firemane takes a flying leap over a particularly large
boulder and lands awkwardly on the far side. As the
horse stumbles, you are unable to keep your seat in
the saddle. You are thrown over your mount’s neck
and hit the ground painfully (lose 2 sTAMINA points),

You remount quickly so as not to lose your quarry
and charge off after it. Tum to 256.

210
Chaos Knights and Warriors are storming on to the
battlements from all directions, You watch in despair
as Belgaroth vanishes into the night and you are
surrounded by his army. You are soon overwhelmed
and your crushed body is hurled from the battlements

ee

211-215

214
As you leap into the saddle, your ghostly attacker
makes a final lunge at you. Test your Skill. If you
succeed, you parry the blow and escape without injury.
If you fail, the dagger sinks into your back (lose 2
STAMINA points) before you are able to ride off into
the night, Only after you have put several hours of
hard riding between you and the spint assassin do you
stop again for what remains of the night. (Add 1 day
to the Time Elapsed and write down the word ‘Reggad’
on your Adventure Sheet.) At dawn you are on your
way again; turn to 285.

212

The portcullis, although very heavy-looking, does not
appear to be locked in position. You could use Ironbane
on it, if you have some (turn to 372), or try raising the
portcullis with your bare hands (turn to 259).

213
Walking westwards through the forest, you soon
emerge close to the outskirts of the town of Havalok.
And standing near by, cropping the grass, is Firemane.

ee | See

213

Your steed must have followed you and your captors
from Wendeford to the clerics’ temple. Thanking the
gods for such a loyal companion, you show Firemane
your appreciation. Having remounted, you decide that
there is no time to visit Havalok itself, so you press on
with your quest.

Two roads lead away from Havalok. The westerly
road eventually forks, one branch leading south to the
village of Ennox. You know that the Dwarf blacksmith
Torrin Silverblade has his forge near Ennox. In his
youth, Torrin was a Warrior of Telak, but now he is
renowned for the quality of the armour he makes
which, some say, has magical properties. He could well
provide you with a valuable defence against the attacks
of your enemies. However, to find his forge would
mean making a long detour to the village of Ennox.
Do you have time to make such a joumey? If you
think you have, and you want to visit Torrin, tum to
283. If you would rather head more directly south
towards Caer Skaal, skirting the Forest of Lein, turn
to 130.

‘ : aM LANA NEW NT NE
BAYA ag, yyy evans NT STR
batty NIE WE NA TST TE

WAN Vays T prAaty ATW
cis AAT A WNRKS NE
ST VK A na

214-215

214
You push against the heavy stone lid and with a
grating noise it slides open, Lying in the sarcophagus
is what remains of a tal] man. Draped over his skeleton
is the uniform of a knight, bearing the insignia of a
Golden Dragon. An unpleasant grey mould covers the
bones; when you opened the coffin, a cloud of spores
flew into the air. You cannot avoid inhaling a lungful,
and you start coughing violently. The spores of the
poisonous mould affect your breathing and you must
lose 3 STAMINA points. If you have the word ‘Eugalp’
written on your Adventure Sheet you must lose 6
STAMINA points and 1 SKILL point instead, because the
leper’s wasting disease is aggravated by the spore-
cloud. When the cloud has cleared, you look into the
sarcophagus to see if the dead knight has anything
that may be of use to you. His weapons of war have
long since rusted and are of no use to you. However,
on one bony finger you notice a gold ring inscribed
with the picture of a shield. Do you want to take the
ring, at the risk of releasing another cloud of spores
from the asphyxiating mould (turn to 131), or will you
leave the crypt and search elsewhere (turn to 243 and
choose again)?

215
Searching the rooms of the Elders’ Meeting House, you
come upon something interesting in what was once
the treasury. Under a thick layer of dust, an old journal
lies open on a desk. The last entry in it is dated ‘The
Third day of Locking, Two Hundred and Sixteen
Years After Chaos’ and reads as follows:

216-217

It is two months since the vile Necromage, Cadaver, was
laid to rest, but still we are beset by all manner of
torments and agonies. Creatures of the night stalk the
streets of our once proud village and the Great Bell has
begun fo toll again. I fear our doom to be decreed. There
is no hope for us now

Disturbed by this message, written by a long-dead
hand, you leave the meeting house to continue your
exploration of the village. Retwm to 31 and choose
another option.

216

It is the densely growing bracken that stops you
spotting a forester’s trap, constructed, no doubt, to
catch the rogue boar. The covering of branches gives
way under your horse’s weight and you both fall into
the pit. Fortunately it is not staked but, as he falls,
Firemane knocks you irito the side of the pit and traps
your leg under his body (lose 3 sTAMINA points and 1
SKILL point). Your mount pulls himself free of the trap
with ease and you climb up after him, slightly less
easily. Once you have remounted, you are on your
way again through the forest. Turn to 291.

2417
Dusk has fallen by the time you leave the burial
mounds. You spend the night in peace and the next
day set off refreshed (restore 2 STAMINA points and
add 1 day to the Time Elapsed). You reach the cave
after several hours’ riding, and the crone quickly sets
about brewing your potion In another hour it is

218

ready. Without hesitation you gulp down the foul-
smelling, thick, black liquid. The potion makes you feel
slightly sick, but at the same time it fills you with
renewed confidence and determination. Lose 2
STAMINA points, but restore 1 LUCK point and 2 SKILL
point, and cross off any fear you may have recorded
on your Adventure Sheet. Thanking the old crone, you
mount Firemane and head south. Tur to 332.

218

Your inherent goodness and the purity of your purpose
protect your will from the corrupting power of the
Chaos Rune. Belgaroth hesitates for a moment, sensing
that his own supremacy may be threatened. The Dread
Lord now appears to be concentrating. What is he

219-220

preparing? You had better make the most of this
opportunity to attack Belgaroth. What will you use to
attack him?

A Black Crystal Orb?
Aelfgar, the Elf-Spear?

Turn to 118
Tum to 262

A crossbow? Turn to 299
The Holy Strike Special Skill (if you

have it)? Tum to 79
Your weapon? Turn to 20

. 219

Remounting your trusty steed, you make your way
through the South Gate, out of Havalok. Two roads
lead away from Havalok. The westerly road eventually
has a branch leading south to the village of Ennox
You know that the Dwarf blacksmith Torrin Silverblade
has his forge near Ennox. In his youth, Torrin was a
Warrior of Telak, but now he is renowned for the
quality of the armour he makes — which, some say, has
magical properties. He could well provide you with a
valuable defence against the blows of your enemies.
However, to find his forge would mean making a long
detour to the village of Ennox. Do you have time to
make such a journey? If you think you have, and you
want to visit Torin, turn to 283. If you would rather
head more directly south towards Caer Skaal, skirting
the Forest of Lein, turn to 130

220

You reach the ladder without further mishap and,
unnoticed, climb quickly up it, The trapdoor is not
locked; pushing it open, you find yourself in a small

221-222

dark chamber at the base of the tower. There is an
iron-bound door in the wall of the room and a spiral
staircase leads upwards into the Juggernaut. You can
feel heat coming from behind the door and you hear a
deep roaring sound. Do you want to open the door
(turn to 124) or ascend the staircase (turn to 311)?

224

Cutting out the Cockatrice’s tongue, you return to the
crone’s cave. ‘A terrible Banshee, called the Cailleach,
haunts the Cairns of Dunar, half a day's ride south-
west of here across the moors. You'll have to kill it in
the flesh and get the last ingredient for yer potion,’
the old hag cackles. If you want to go after the
Banshee and its tooth, turn to 323. If you would rather
forget the whole idea now, you decide to waste no
more time in this area and to head southwards again;
turn to 3352.

222
Once again, everything is as it was when you entered
the chamber. You move towards the gilded doors, but
there is yet another surprise in store for you. Hearing
footsteps behind you, you tum to see yourself standing
on the other side of the mosaic: However, as you
watch, your double undergoes a horrifying transforma-
tion. First it begins to grow in size, then terrible sores
appear on its skin; they burst open, revealing decaying
flesh beneath, Its hands become crue] talons and unholy
fires burn within its eyes. At the same time your
double’s armour and weapon tarnish, and its tunic

=| eee

223-224

becomes a grave-shroud. What will you do? Will you
attack the horror (turn to 113) or wait to see what
happens {turn to 58)?

223
The hellspawn reels under the force of your righteous
power and, as it recovers from your blast, you draw
your weapon, ready to fight. The Demonic Slayer can
be harmed only by magical weapons. If you do not
have one, you will soon meet the same fate as Herluin
under the creature’s onslaught. Your opponent's claws
are so sharp, they will cut through armour and flesh
alike, so any bonuses you may have against an oppo-
nent’s damage will have no effect!

DEMONIC SLAYER SKILL Q STAMINA 6

If you destroy the horror, tum to 128.

224
You give the forester your instructions and by the
time dusk is falling you have your makeshift army
ready, armed with crude weapons and farm implements
~ your old commander at the Demonkeep Outpost
would have been proud of you! Carrying torches and
singing to keep their spirits up, the villagers follow
you west to Myrton, while you ride at their head on
Firemane, who is excited at the prospect of battle. You
soon come in sight of the derelict ruins which are
lying under a thick pall of mist, The air is heavy with
the smell of death and you can hear the tolling of a
bell. Emerging from the enshrouding mist are the
bodies of the dead returned to life. With a shout you

225-226

lead your army against them in an attempt to break
through their lines. Roll one dice. If the result is odd,
turn to 358; if it is even, turn to 275.

225
Rough hands grab you and pull you through the
doors. Before you know what is going on, someone
pushes a sweet-scented cloth into your face and you
inhale deeply, Everything goes black... Turn te sq.

226
You stroll nonchalantly up to the guard, ready to spin
it Some yarn about wanting to join Belgaroth’s forces.
As soon as the Beast Man observes your fivery
bearing the badge of the Templars, it snarls and leaps
at you. Turn to 386. but disregard the instructions
about using a crossbow.
227

227
Pyritees takes you over to a workbench on which is
laid out a piece of parchment with a grid drawn on it.
In the squares of the grid have been placed the various
solutions and compounds needed for an alchemical
experiment. At the end of each row and column a
number has been written, except at the bottom of two
columns: there is also one empty square. Pyritees
explains that a friend of his in Shekin has sent him the
formula for a life-extending elixir, including details of
the ingredients required and their respective quantities.
Unfortunately, as a result of one of the alchemist’s all
too frequent ‘accidents’, the letter that came with the
formula was destroyed before the experiment was
fully set up. Now ail Pyritees has are the weights of
the combined compounds in each row and column,
except for two, and one missing ingredient. (Take a
look at the illustration opposite this paragraph.) The
ingredients — ether-mist trapped in glass spheres, dew
from the Forest of Lein, volcanic ash fom Hellsbreath
Peak, and lumps of sulphur-rock — each represent one
of the four elements. If you could work out the weight
of each elernent, fom the combined weights, you
might be able to work out the missing ingredient. If
you could do this, you would also be able to work out
the two missing numbers from the two columns. If
you manage this, add the two missing weights to-
gether, then tum to the paragraph with the same
number, If you cannot solve the problem, you leave
the alchemist’s laboratory and either try to recruit a
small army (tum to 139) or leave Havalok (turn to

314),

ee

228-229

228

Feeling a sharp pain in your side, you wake up with a
start. Hovering above you is a dagger, its hilt glinting
in the moonlight and its blade dripping with blood
— your blood! Lose 2 sTAMINA points. A ghostly
white hand clutches the dagger and is poised, ready to
strike again, What will you do to defend yourself?
Will you use the Banish Spirit Special Skill, if you have
it (turn to 141), or unsheathe your weapon, ready to
fight it (turn to 43)?

~~ . nn. Rg

———— —

=

229

As you declaim the final word of the charm, the knights
drop their weapons and clutch their heads with gauntleted
hands. They stagger about, reeling under the eldritch
forces that are assailing their undead bodies. Some fall to

the floor and lie perfectly motionless. As you watch, foul
green slime oozes out of their helmets and through gaps

230

in their armour, which starts to dissolve. Roll one dice
and add 5 to the number rolled (add 1 further point if you
have the Holy Strike Special Skill} to see how many of the
Chaos Knights succumb to your attack (there are twelve
in all). The words spoken, they lose their power
and may not be used again. You will have to fight any
knights not destroyed by the charm, one at a time. Each
Chaos Knight has sxiLL 10 and sTAMINA i2. When
fighting the knights, you must reduce any damage you
do by 1 point because they are protected by their black
armour. If a knight hits you, roll one dice. If the number
rolled is odd, the knight’s weapon causes 3 STAMINA
points of damage rather than 2. If you manage to destroy
or defeat all your knightly opponents, turn to 138.

230
At the close of the month of Dark in the year 185
After Chaos, the battle-weary crusaders laid siege to
the fortress of Caer Skaal. Among them was the
young warrior-priestess, Shamar, With her finely
crafted crossbow she shot down many of Belgaroth’s
nightmarish flying creatures that were preventing the
brave warriors from reaching the castle walls — until
she was hit by a dark balefire, launched from a catapult
inside the fortress, The crossbow has six bolts that go
with it, three of which are made from a blessed
magical alloy so that they will also harm undead and
Demons. When you are given the option of using the
crossbow, Test your Skill, adding 2 to the number
rolled if you do not have the Target Special Skill. If
you succeed, the bolt will hit, doing 2 stamina points
of damage. If you fail, it misses. Now return to 356.

231

231
As you lift the sword from the slab the dead do not
awaken and nothing else untoward happens. You are
holding the ancient magical blade, Shadowbane, a
weapon woven with a blessed enchantment to harm
the undead. If you take the sword, whenever you are
in combat against one of the undead you may add 2
point to your Attack Strength and inflict 3 sTAMINA
points of damage upon it after a successful hit (against
all other opponents Shadowbane does the usual 2
STAMINA points of damage). Regain 1 Luck point for
this find. Leaving the burial mound, passing once
again through the chilling darkness you will lose a
further 2 STAMINA points and 1 sKiLL point unless
you are carrying the moon shield or Shadowbane
Turn to 316.

2352-234

232
Inside the box is an orb of black crystal. Such rare
crystals are sometimes used by sorcerers to store
spells. Having been locked away, it could be very
valuable — or very dangerous. Return to 274.

%33
As you make for the door in order to leave the boiler-
room, a black-clad Hobgoblin steps im front of you,
blocking your exit. It has seen what you have done
and will try at all costs to stop you.

HOBGOBLIN FANATIC SKILL 7 STAMINA 6

If this fight lasts more than four Attack Rounds, tum
to 4. If it lasts four Attack Rounds or less, turn to
101,

234
You have no trouble silencing the bell: you smash it to
pieces with your weapon; by doing so you have
slightly weakened the evil powers at work here, From
now on, while you are in Myrton, you may reduce the
SKILL of any undead creature you have to confront by
i point Regain 1 Lucx point for this good fortune.
However, something else is less happy at your stop-
ping the death-knell. One of the bats drops from its
roost and, exposing two elongated fangs, attacks you.
You are going to have to kil! the Vampire Bat before
you can leave the tower!

VAMPIRE BAT SKILL 7 STAMINA 6

i «6
255-237

if you defeat the bloodthirsty guardian of the belfry,
you notice a battered, but usable, lantern standing in
one corer of the room. If you do not have a lantern,
you may take this one; then you descend the tower
safely and leave it, to search elsewhere. Return to 31
and choose another option.

235

You pull the hood off the man’s head and demand that
he tell you why he attacked you. ‘Curse you, Templar!’
he shouts. ‘f shall never betray the sect!’ And with that
he pulls something out of a pocket and flings it in
your face. The air is suddenly filled with a cloud of
sweet-smelling Sleeping Grass pollen. Test your Luck. If
you are Lucky, turn to 479. If you are Unlucky, tum
to 83.

236

Such a victory was exactly what your army. needed.
The Beast Men are not stunned by their champion’s
defeat, because their insane bloodlust drives them on;
but it gives your men the confidence, determination
and strength to defeat their opponents. It looks as if
you are winning. If you have Lord Varen’s soldiers
among your force, turn to 35. If you haven‘t, turn
to 302.

237
You mutter the arcane phrases and make the necessary
gestures — but to no effect. The horror you are now
facing is not an undead spirit but a Demon from the
Everlasting Abyss. it strikes you, its huge talons tearing

238-239

right through your armour and into your body (lose 3
STAMINA points). Turn to 13.

238
As you fight on against your mighty foe, you feel a
sudden cold stab of pain in your chest. The fast thing
you see before you Jose consciousness is Belgaroth
looking down at you as the Assassin's Dagger hovers
above you, its blade dripping with blood, At last it has
caught up with you and fulfilled its purpose.

239
The beast reels under your righteous blast, giving you
time to perform another action. Will you:

Attack it with your weapon? Turn to 143
Use the Banish Spirit Special Skill? Tur to 260
Use a Cleric’s Talisman? Turn to 28
Use the potion Witherwell? Tum to 41
240-241

240
Shouting aloud the battle-cry of the Templars, you
hear the voices in your head turn to screams, then
they are gone. Relieved, you start to leave the macabre
torture-chamber. With a clang, a branding-iron strikes
a pillar just in front of your face. You spin around as a
length of chain rises from the floor into the air. This
can mean only one thing: you are being attacked by a
Poltergeist. Spiteful and malevolent spints, Poltergeists
are invisible and immaterial and so cannot be hit by
weapons. If you have the Banish Spirit Special Skill,
you can use your talent to send the Poltergeist to the
Ethereal Plane (turn to 198), If you do not, you will
have to defend yourself against the ghost as it hurls
torture implements at you.

POLTERGEIST SKILL g

It will take you five Attack Rounds to reach the door
exiting the torture-chamber, during which time you
will have to fend off the Poltergeist’s attack. When the
five Attack Rounds are up, and if you are still alive,
turn to 198.

241
You find that the gates of Havalok have been securely
shut for the night. However, as soon as the guard sees
that it is an elite Templar Knight of Telak who seeks
entry to the town, he hurries down and unbars the
gate, letting you into Havalok. You find a room and a
hot meal for the night, at a cost of 3 Gold Pieces, at
the Red Herring, a large inn, popular among the

241

adventuring fraternity. Having eaten, you retire for
the night. As you are preparing for sleep, through
your window you suddenly catch sight of a blazing
ball of light shooting across the blackened sky, a fiery
tail trailing behind it. The comet soars onwards until it
disappears over the hills on the distant horizon. It is a
well-known fact that a comet is a sign of impending
disaster, and you have just witnessed such a portent. It
is some time before sleep eventually overcomes you.

You rise early, feeling refreshed after an untroubled
night’s rest (restore up to 2 points of stAMINA and
add 1 day to the Time Elapsed). Having left the Red
Herring, you get ready to explore the town. Havalok
is not a large town but, as time is pressing, you still do
not want to spend too long here. In Havalok you
should be able to find some useful equipment that you
may need later in your quest, and surely here would
be a good place to try to recruit a small army with
which to oppose Belgaroth’s forces, if that is what you
intend to do, If you want to visit the markets, turn to
334. If you want to try to recruit an army, turn to 139.

242
Hastily you free the prisoners and usher them out of
the hall. At that moment you hear a voice inside your
head: Brave warrior, free me. Something is speaking to
you telepathically, in a calm warm voice that fills you
with a sense of well-being.

You turn your attention to the draped cage. Taking
one comer of the black cloth, you pull it away. For a
moment you are blinded by a dazzling light and fling
up an arm to shield your eyes. When you grow
accustomed to the brilliance, you peer between the
iron bars. Trapped inside the cage is a gigantic bird
looking somewhat like an eagle in shape and form, but
far larger and with a crest of feathers rising from its
head and along its neck, Each of the bird’s feathers
glows with a golden radiance which lights up the
entire hall, and you can feel the creature’s powerful
aura of goodness.

Thank you, good knight, it says. I am the Celastriz,
perhaps you have heard of me from your legends? You
nod, awe-struck. The Celastrix, so legend says, is a
messenger of the gods, a magical bird of divine origin
In fimes past, when people were closer to their gods, I
visited this Earthly Plane regularly, relaying messages to
and from my masters. Centuries have passed in your world
since last I came here, but now the situation demands it.
Disorder and Chaos are on the rise and so I was sent to
this plane fo offer divine aid. However, I was caught by
these vile Beast Men through dark sorcery, for the Dark
Tyrant fears the dead king's prophecy. If you release me, I
will offer you my help.
243

Searching Murgrim’s body, you find a bunch of keys
and, sure enough, one opens the lock on the cage. Free
of its prison, the Celastrix stretches its wings then flies
up to the ceiling, picking you up in its talons. Now let
us leave this place. The bird smashes through the
wooden roof of the hall and, beating its great wings,
soars away from the camp across the night sky. Your
aerial journey is soon over when the Celastrix drops
to the ground and deposits you near Firemane. Before
it flies off again, the huge bird plucks a feather from its
breast and drops it at your feet. When you need my
help, simply burn this feather and call my name three
times. With that, the divine messenger flies away over
the hills and disappears beyond the horizon. Taking
the bird’s golden feather, you remount Firemane and
ride off to the south. Regain 1 Luck point and add
1 to your HONOUR score for defeating another of
Belgaroth’s allies and for releasing the Celastrix. Turn
to 296.

243
A passage leads from the steps into a square chamber
which has the same ornamentation as the exterior of
the sepulchre. Three archways lead further into the
tomb. If you have the Arcane Lore Special Skill, turn to
16. If you haven‘t, you must decide which passageway
to follow. You have entered from the east so will you

gO:

South? Turn to 361
West? Turn to 391
North? Turn to 109

244

The men are playing a game called ‘Dragon’s Hoard’.
As you watch, you soon manage to work out the
tules. The board on which the game is played has
been divided into a grid of 25 squares and on some of
these squares have been placed Gold Pieces. There are
also two playing pieces on the board, one carved and
painted to resemble an armoured warrior, the other a
fearsome-looking Red Dragon. The labourers roll two
dice, then consult a table on one side of the board: it
tells them how many squares each piece can move in
that round. They then move the warrior, while the
soldier moves the dragon closer to try and catch them.
Each time the labourers land on a Gold Piece, they
Temove it from the board and add it to a pile in front
of them. However, as a result of the dice roll, the
soldier is able to move his dragon so that it Iands on
the same square as the warrior. The labourers groan
and hand over their pile of coins, and the soldier
removes the others from the board. As the fbwo men
slouch away, the man-at-arms asks if you would like a
game. If you do not want to play ‘Dragon’s Hoard’,
turn to 40.

If you do, the man explains the rest of the rules to
you, The warrior and dragon start at opposite comers
of the board. The aim of the warrior is to collect as
many Gold Pieces as possible and then escape. Escap-
ing can be done at any time by moving back to the
warrior’s start square. However, any coins left on the
board then go to the dragon. Also, if the dragon lands
on the warrior’s square, the dragon wins and claims all

245

| Jeb ESY
S

2 |S) lian
AYS|_ |@l |r

oA

the Gold Pieces. The table of dice rolls shows how
many moves the warrior can make in a turn and how
many squares closer the dragon can move. Movement
can only be made horizontally or vertically, not diago-
nally, In order to play, you have to put down a stake,
equalling the soldier's, of 6 Gold Pieces. If you cannot
afford this, or do not now want to play, turn to
40. If you do, then the board is laid out as above. Use
counters for the warrior and dragon, then start by
rolling the dice. Whoever wins the game claims his or
her winnings as soon as it is over, and you leave. Turn
to 40.

245
Having crossed safely, you follow the track that leads
from the gorge south-eastwards through the rocky

246

hills. This boulder-strewn wilderness makes a complete
contrast to the sheltered paths of the forest. A cold
wind whips across the bleak grey highlands, making
you shiver at its chill touch. The landscape becomes
even more odd-looking as the track leads you between
the half-buried bones of some leviathan from a bygone
age. And then you see it. Set into the side of a rocky
hillock are two great stone doors, flanked by the
statues of two armoured warriors: the Shrine of the
Templars, You dismount and approach the doors. A
deep, booming voice makes you start, echoing out
across the barren hilltops: ‘Who seeks entrance to the
sacred Shrine of the Templar Knights of Telak the
Swordbearer?’ You give your name and await a re-
sponse. If your HONOUR score is 11 or greater, tum to
330. If it is less than 11, turn to 259.

246

You search the outlaws’ bodies and find a total of 8
Gold Pieces and a silver locket. You may take any of
their weapons if you wish to, remembering the restric-
tion on the number you can carry or use at any one
time. There is a quarterstaff, a dagger and two swords,
none of which is magical, When you are finished here,
you set off south again with Firemane. Turn to 332.

247-248

247

Inside the stockade is a wooden hall, decorated with
human heads impaled on stakes round the edge of its
roof. Is there no end to these creatures’ barbarism?
Chained to a post in front of the doors of the hall is a
two-headed, wolf-like creature which at present is
sucking the marrow from a human leg-bone. However,
as scon as you step forward, the monster glances up
and growls, baring its teeth. You will have to get past
this creature if you are going to enter the hall, Wil
you throw the animal some food (turn to 342) or will
you attack it with your trusty weapon, which has
proved its worth in many battles {turn to 331)?

24.8
Exploring the market, it does not take you long to
find the articles you believe will be of use to you on
the journey ahead. You may buy any of the things on
the list (deducting the correct number of Gold Pieces
from your Adventure Sheet),

Rope t Gold Piece

Lantern 1 Gold Piece

6 Crossbow bolts 3 Gold Pieces

Extra Provisions t Gold Piece each meal

Breastplate 5 Gold Pieces
Mirror 2 Gold Pieces
Healing Salve 4 Gold Pieces
War-hammer 6 Gold Pieces
Flask of Holy Oil 7 Gold Pieces
Spear 3 Gold Pieces
Zirtdian Charm 4 Gold Pieces

249

If you do not have a lantern, you must bay one here.
The crossbow bolts are of any use only if you already
have a crossbow. The breastplate will reduce any
damage you suffer in battle by 2 point, but because it
is quite heavy you must reduce your Attack

by 1 point while wearing it. The Healing Salve may be
used at any Hme except during combat ard will
restore up to 6 points of lost staMINA. While using
the war-hammer in combat you must reduce your
Attack Strength by 1 point, but any successful hit
against an opponent will inflict 5 stamina points of
damage. The Holy Oil is a very valuable item: if
thrown over an undead spirit, it will have the same
effect as the Bunish Spirit Special Skill. It can also be
used against other undead and Demons as if you had
the Holy Strike Special Skill. There are two doses of oil
in the flask. If you have the Spear Weapon Special Skill
you will be able to use the spear in hand-to-hand
combat; the spear does 2 STAMINA points of damage
If you buy the Ziridian Charm, the next two Himes you
are instructed to Test your Luck you may take the result
as being Lucky without having to lose any Luck points.
As you are leaving the market, you pass a building
which has a brass plaque inscribed with the words
‘Aureus Pyritees — Alchemist. Purveyor of Potions and
Elixirs’ attached to the door. Do you want to:

Enter this building? Turn to 193
Now try to recruit an army? Turn to 139
Leave Havalok altogether? Tum to 314

249
As you climb the steps leading out of the sepulchre,
249

you sense an evil presence close by. What can it be?
Surely ail the Necromage’s creatures have been de-
stroyed? Hovering at the top of the steps is your
nemesis. The Assassin’s Dagger has tracked you down
at last, following the psychic trail you have left like a
fingerprint on the ether. The blade glints dully in the
moonlight in the grasp of the ghostly hand If you
have some Holy Oil, you cast if over your supernatural
assailant and the spirit dissolves into the night air,
dropping the dagger (cross the Holy Oil and the word
‘Reggad’ off your Adventure Sheet; you may also take
the dagger if you wish, and then turn to 374). If you
do not have any way of banishing the spectral hand,
you must fight it once again.

ASSASSIN’'S DAGGER SKILL 10

After four Attack Rounds, or if you win two consecu-
tive Attack Rounds, you work yourself into a position
in which you can escape from the sepulchre. Racing up
the last few steps, you slam the heavy stone doors
behind you, trapping the Assassin's Dagger inside.
Turn to 374

250-251

250
You dismount and tear off a square of cloth from your
tunic to put the mushrooms in. Bending down at the
edge of the clearing, you reach gingerly towards the
fungi. Test your Skill. If you succeed, turn to 266. If
you fail, turn to 174.

>»
ae

se

a= d by. =~ arty ‘s
aed ore re x _

251
Belgaroth is beginning to weaken under your attack;
out of the corner of your eye you notice that the
large black bird that was sitting on the back of the
Dread Lord’s throne is flapping from its perch towards
an archway that leads out of the throne room. If you
have the word ‘Rotiart’ wntten down on your Adventure
Sheet, turn at once to 360. If you haven't, turn to g6.

252-254

252
At the sight of all these snakes you start to panic. Test
vour Skill, adding 2 to the dice roll. If you succeed,
you manage to overcome your phobia and face. the
serpents, but while you are fighting them you must
reduce your Attack Strength by 2 points {turn to 500),
If you fail, you run out of the caves in terror and.
remounting Firemane, ride away from Ennox (lose i
HONOUR and 1 tuck point for your cowardly behav-
tour, and turn to 332).

253
The crossbow zips through the air, straight into the
tleeing scoundrel’s heart. His lifeless body drops to the
ground (regain 1 LucK point). Turn to 124.

254
One of the warriors standing next to you drops dead
and you turn on his killer, a hairy, goat-headed crea-
ture. One long horn protrudes from its skull, which it

255

lowers as it runs at you with the intention of goring
you.

GOREHORN SKILL 8 STAMINA Q

If the Beast Man wins two consecutive Attack Rounds,
roll one dice. If the number rolled is odd, the chaotic
gares you with its horn, causing 4 points of damage
to your STAMINA. [f you win, deduct 4 paint from the
Beast Men's Battle Strength, then Engitge in Battle. lf
you have the advantage. tur to 149: otherwise, turn
to 207.
255

Drawing your magical, blessed sword, you prepare to
defend yourself against this ghostly adversary.

SPECTRAL KNIGHT SKILL 9
If you defeat the spirit, turn to 356,

STAMINA 8

>

C,

—*

(\ <= mee

-
s

256-258

256

You manage to stay in the saddle as you and your
steed negotiate difficult terrain. Suddenly, in a small
clearing, the boar stops and turns to face you. The
rogue beast is at least three metres long from snout to
tail; it is covered in short, dark hair, with darker bands
along its back. It snarls, revealing its huge yellow
tusks and sharp teeth. With a bestial roar the animal
runs at you. If you have a crossbow or a lance, you
may use one of these weapons once before having to
draw your weapon. Deduct from the boar’s stAMINA
score any damage you have already inflicted upon it,
then fight the battle which follows in the usual way.

GREAT BOAR SKILL 8 STAMINA 8
If you kill the beast, turn to 86,

257

The voice addresses you, saying, ‘You are not worthy
to enter this place. Only the bravest and most honour-
able may share the secrets of the Templars.’ You
know that there is nothing you can do to enter
the shrine and so, greatly disheartened and having
wasted a day’s travel getting here, you turn Fire-
mane towards the west and set off at a gallop through
the hills towards Caer Skaal (lose 1 Luck point and
turn to 23).

258
Awenydion starts feeling the bumps on your head and
tells you how you will have a large family and be well
loved by the citizens of Ruddlestone, Then, suddenly,
259-260

he freezes and his eyes glaze over. It is as if he has
gone into a trance. When he speaks, you sense that it
is not he who is controlling his tongue: ‘Brave knight,
the forces of darkness and Chaos seek your min.
Beware the beasts that are men, and heed well the
words of the warrior of stone. Time is running out.
Hurry now to the Fortress of the Skull.’ Awenydion
has been granted the Third Eye by his gods, and they
have given you a warning through him (regain 1 tuck
point), Turn to 125.

259

Unfortunately, this method creates a lot of noise when
the portcullis rattles up into the walls, with metal
grating on stone, and it is not long before you hear
the sound of armoured guards running down the steps
in front of you. Several ugly Ores and black-clad
Chaos Warriors appear at the portcullis, which is
hurriedly raised, and you are soon overpowered by
the guards. You die quickly but valiantly.

260
Your mystic talent has no effect on the creature! The
Darkthorn is an elemental spirit, not an undead one.
The thing lashes out at you with a vine-like growth,
which knocks you off your feet (lose 2 STAMINA
points), What will you do next? Will you:

Attack with your weapon? Turn to 143
Use the Holy Strike Special Skill? Tum to 239
Use a Cleric’s Talisman? Turn to 28
Use the potion Witherwell? Tum to 41

261-263

261

You try to calm the crowd by telling them that you
are on an urgent mission, but your oratory skills are
not good enough to appease the seething mob.
‘Avenge yourselves with the death of this accursed
Templar!’ the incensed prophet yells. You have no
choice but to try to escape. With a shout, you kick
your heels into Firemane’s flanks. The horse whinnies
and leaps forward into the crowd, Driving your mount
forward, you charge past the startled protesters. As
you flee, however, you are struck by a pike (lose 2
STAMINA points). Soon you are well away from the
angry mob; but you acted dishonourably towards the
starving people (lose 1 HONOUR point). Wasting no
more time, you continue southwards; turn to 200.

262

As you grip the Elf-Spear’s shaft you feel its power
flowing into your arm, strengthening your muscles
Belgaroth screams upon seeing the weapon that caused
his death a century ago. Before you can hur! it at him,
the Dark Tyrant raises his hands and unleashes a dark
bolt of energy at you. It slams into your body,
throwing you back across the room (lose 5 STAMINA
points). If you are still alive, turn to 162.

263
The sun is low in the sky by the time you reach the
Cairns of Dunar, and you can sense the presence of
evil in the area. The site is made up of four tumuli
constructed round a central ring of stones with one at
roughly each point of the compass. A dark hole in the
264

side of each mound provides access to whatever is
waiting inside. If you do not want to search the
barrows — which you can do only if you have a
lantern — you can leave the Caims of Dunar by
turing to 202. If you have the Tracking Special Skill,
tum to 137. If you do not, having lit your lantern,
which mound will you enter first? The one to the:

North? Tum to 95
South? Tum to 195
East? Turn to 339
West? Turn to 350

264

Several vines suddenly shoot out of the undergrowth
and wrap themselves round your ankles, dragging you
to the ground with a thump (lose 1 stTAMINA point).
You hack at the plants until you manage to free
yourself, but now the man is nowhere to be seen, and
the surrounding brambles cover up his tracks. Puzzled
by what you have just seen, you return to Firemane
and leave the Forest of Lein behind you, Turn to 17,

265-266

265
The Chaos spawn are on you in an instant. Driven by
insane bloodlust, the Beast Men do not even bother to
add you to the funeral pyre but simply cut you down
where you stand, before setting a torch to the Wicker
Man and its prisoners. The Dark Gods will be well
pleased tonight.

266
Taking great care you push the soil away from a
cluster of the fungi and gently lift them from the earth
into your ready-made pouch, With the cloth securely
tied with a piece of vine, you put the fimgi in your
backpack. If you ever use the Ironbane against an
armoured opponent, roll one dice before combat
begins. On a roll of 1 or 2, the spores destroy your
adversary’s armour so it loses any protection it may
have against your blows. On a roll or 3 or 4, your
opponent's weapon, provided it is made of metal, is
267-268

destroyed, so your enemy will have to fight you with
his SKILL score reduced by 3 points. On a roll of 5 or
6, the Ironbane destroys both the armour and the
weapon, However, this new weapon may be used
only once. Turn to 8

267

Connor manages to swallow the liquid and recovers
sufficiently to tell you what has befallen him: ‘I was
ambushed ... Archers .., There were three of them

. riding wolves ... And their banners bore the
gauntlet and sword symbol of Belgaroth’s forces...
You tell Connor quickly of your quest and swear by
Telak’s golden sword that you will do all you can to
avenge him, The knight manages a weak smile and
then, although his breath is coming in short bursts, he
speaks again: “Yesterday I encountered two Chaos
Warriors raiding a farm on the southern edge of the
forest. Before [ slew them, I overheard part of a
conversation. They said that Belgaroth has gained the
support of the Chaos Beast Lord, Murgrim the Cruel,
and his horde of Chaos Beast Men. One of them also
said that the Beast Men have captured the Bird of
Light and mentioned something about a prophecy.’
Connor suddenly cries out in pain, ‘I’m afraid there is
nothing more you can do for me ... Go now and do
your duty.’ Tur to 72.

268
The landlady makes the most of any opportunity for a
good gossip and readily tells you all the rumours that
are going about in these parts. “They do say that there

269

is upset in the land,’ she tells you conspiratorially,
‘Only last Earthday, Serlo, the gravedigger, saw the
ghost of a priest in the graveyard, and at the end of
Hiding the moon itself was the colour of blood.
There's also talk of druids carrying out dark rites in
the forest and robber bands roaming the countryside.
It's not safe any more.’ Next, will you ask her where
you can find the sage (tum to 362), ask her about the
inn’s name (turn to 134), or will you waste no more
time here and leave Wendeford (turn to 49)?

269

The corrosive spores of the fungus begin to work
straight away. (Cross the Ironbane off your Adventure
Sheet.) The iron body of the Golem rapidly turns to
rust and falls apart before your very eyes. Soon all
that is left of this ultimate killing machine is a heap of
red powder. Now roll one dice. On a roll of 1 or 2,
turn to 347; otherwise, turn to 50.

270

270
You whisper Cadaver's name and the great black door
swings open. A blast of air escapes from the tomb
chamber beyond, causing you to gag at the reeking
stench. Stepping through the grim portal, you descend
a flight of steps into a high-ceilinged, cavern-like
chamber. Stalactites hang down and the alcoves in the
walls hold gruesome statures of Demons and the
undead. Standing in the middle of the room is a huge
stone sarcophagus, its lid covered in strange glowing
writing. As you step towards the tomb, green fire
begins to play about the crack of its lid. Slowly the
heavy stone slab rises into the air, then slides to the
floor with a hollow boom. What you witness next is
like something out of your worst nightmare. A decom-
posing body, still wearing the robes of a sorcerer, sits
up in the stone coffin and turns to face you. A sinister
smile forms on its decaying lips and a rasping hiss
rises from its throat. However, more horribly, you see,
protruding from the corpse's torso below its arms, are
four huge spider's legs, covered in bristly black hairs.
Trailing strands of a thick gelatinous substance, the
Necromage climbs out of his sarcophagus, while you
remain rooted to the spot, petrified. ‘Well, Deathsss-
head, it sseemss we have a vissitor.’ When the undead
sorcerer speaks, a human skull, glowing with faint
phosphorescence, rises from the coffin and stares at
you with two jaundice-yellow eyes, its jaws clicking
incessantly.

‘Bite and tear, bite and tear,’ the snapping skull jibbers
as it flies towards you. The Holy Strike Special Skill
271-273

will inflict 2 staMINA points and 1 sKILL point of
damage upon this adversary, Whether you use this
power or not, you are going to have to fight the
Necromage’s servant, Deathshead.

DEATHSHEAD SKILL 9 STAMINA 5

If you win, turn to 116.

271
You keep to the main passageways and staircases that
riddle the walls of the tower, trying to avoid discovery,
in order to find the Usurping Serpent himself. Turning
a comer, you come face to face with a Chaos Warrior
patrol. You prepare to fight, but one of the warriors
has already sounded the alarm and soon the patrol is
joined by a horde of Orcs, Goblins and other soldiers.
You are soon overwhelmed. Ruddlestone is doomed!

272
As you move to attack the Arch-Cleric, the weeds
wrap themselves round your legs, hampering your
movements. For the duration of the battle you are
about to fight, you must reduce your Attack Strength
by 2 points. You lunge at Bryar with your weapon
while he defends himself with his twisted staff.

BRYAR SKILLO
If you win, turn to 185.

STAMINA 9

273
Materializing in the middle of the chamber is a large
coiled serpent. A long forked tongue flicks in and out

274-2795

between its fanged jaws, and two horns sprout from
its head. You must fight this monster — but with your
Attack Strength reduced by 2 points because of your
phobia.

HORNED SERPENT SKILL 8 STAMINA 13

If you destroy the slithering horror, turn to 222.

274
Under the gaze of the owl, you start to search through
the debris of broken bookcases and scattered papers.
Roll one dice. Ona roll of 1, tum to 305; if you roll 2, turn
to 52; if you roll 3, turn to 121; and ona roll of 4, turn to
161, If you roll 5 or 6, you find nothing of value. Repeat
this action two more times. If you roll a number that you
have rolled before, you find nothing. After three rolls of
the dice, you can find nothing else, so you conclude your
search, Taking any objects that you have found and
want to keep, you decide what to do next (return to 166)

275
Charging out of the mist come three terrifying Undead
Horsemen, waving scythes. The flesh is falling from
their bodies and their steeds are skeletal creatures,
their skin stretched taut over their bones. There is no
time to use a crossbow or a lance or any mystic skills
before they all attack you at once

SKILL STAMINA
First HORSEMAN 7 7
Second HORSEMAN 6 v4

Third HORSEMAN 7 6

2976-278

For the duration of this battle you must reduce your
Attack Strength by 2 points unless you do have the
Ride Special Skill. If you are victorious, the villagers
continue to battle against the dead army while you go
after the Necromancer. Turn to 31

276
Courageously, if somewhat foolishly, you engage the
Chaos Knights in combat. Each of these foul undead
warriors is almost your equal, and these are not crea-
tures of honour, They surround you and the mighty
blows of their weapons smash your body to the floor,

277

The Mistress lays out her elaborately decorated Cards
of Divination, face down, in a mystical pattern, then
tums them over one by one to interpret their meaning.
‘Darkness shrouds your path, death surrounds you and
the way may be perilous. Dark powers are coming to
the fore, but there are those who would help you. The
Lord of the Forest awaits your coming and the prison-
ers of the Wicker Man require your aid. Do not tarry,
for the Dread Lord increases in strength with each
passing day and creatures of Chaos come to join his
evil horde’ The consultation over, you decide not to
delay here any longer and so leave the diviner's
abode. Turn to 248.

278
The day draws on as you ride through the ancient
woodland, Having crossed a river, the further you

279

travel the stronger grows the sense of mystery that
pervades your consciousness. You also feel increasingly
that you are being watched, which is quite unsettling.
Every time you look around you detect a slight move-
ment in the undergrowth but nothing to be seen
causing it. It is then that you hear the sound of
something large moving among the tees, a little way
off to your left. It could be a forest creature, such as a
bear. Do you want to try to discover what is making
the noise (turn to 69) or will you ignore it and
continue on your present path (turn to 324)?

279
With a gargantuan effort you manage to snap the
vines and fling yourself from the slab, snatching your
backpack from the surprised cleric holding it, Rapidly
the fibrous stems grow upwards for several metres,
intertwining until they have formed into a gigantic,
plant-like humanoid covered in vicious thorns. Two
emerald orbs glow with an evil awareness and, with its
trunk-like legs still firmly rooted in the ground, the
manifestation of the Darkthorn reaches for you with
knotted hands. You are going to have to defend
yourself against this dark elemental spirit, Will you:

280

Draw your weapon and do battle? Turn to 143
Use the Holy Strike Special Skill (if

you can)? Turn to 239
Use the Banish Spirit Special Skill (if

you can)? Turn to 260
Use a Cleric’s Talisman (if you have

one)? Turn to 28
Use the potion Witherwell (if you

have it)? Turn to 42

‘280

‘Although you have committed crimes against the
forest, your intentions are of the greatest good and
ultimately you seek peace for these ancient woodlands,’
says the Lord of the Forest. “Therefore ] pronounce
that you may pass freely through these lands in your
search for the Elf-Spear.’ Forest maidens retum your
weapon and hand back Firemane’s reins to you. The
Wodewose watch you depart, then dissolve into the
undergrowth, However, you know that they will still
be keeping an eye on your movements while you
remain in the great forest,

When night falls you are still within the confines of
the Forest of Lein. Having tethered Firemane, you
settle down to sleep. You are woken by the sound of
pounding hoofs. Galloping straight towards you and
clearly visible in the darkness is a knight, riding a fiery
steed. The warrior is dressed in orange and carries a
shield bearing the image of a flame In one hand he
wields a blazing fire-sword. The horse’s mane and tail
seem to be on fire, while wisps of scintillating flame

281-282

fly from its hoofs. You must face the fiery warrior in
combat

KNIGHT OF

THE FLAME SKILL 12 STAMINA 22

If you are hit by the fire-sword, you must lose 3
STAMINA points rather than the usual 2, If you are
victorious in your struggle against the knight, turn to 35.

284
The band of musicians are playing The Ballad of Sir
Rhyaddan the Crusader. The song tells of the heroic
knight's adventures at the time of the Crusade against
Chaos. The minstrels are very skilled and you pause to
listen to the lilting melody and words:

‘Then firm was his resolve,

His will strong, his spirit true.
Riding t’wards the sunrise,
Ever onward through the land,
Ever onward, sword in hand,’

Now turn to 40.

282

Buffeted by the wind, the Celastrix suddenly rises
almost vertically. You tip over backwards, losing your
grip on the bird’s crest. The next second you are
clutching at thin air as you plummet earthwards. The
Celastrix turns and tries to catch up with you as you
fall, but it is not fast enough. Your adventure ends
here,
283

283

Galloping along the road that leads westwards across
the desolate moorland, it is several hours before you
reach a signpost directing travellers south to the village
of Ennox. Taking this route, you pass no one else
on the road, and the sky grows overcast with heavy
grey clouds, Dusk falls and still you are not in sight of
Ennox or Tornn’s forge. You ride on, determined to
find shelter before it starts to rain, and soon you come
upon a gibbet, a macabre landmark in this otherwise
barren wilderness. The corpse hanging from it looks as
if it has been here for several weeks: its flesh is rotted
and in places its skin has split, exposing yellowed
bone. The gibbet creaks ominously as the body hang-
ing from its frayed noose swings in the breeze. There
is a rumble of thunder overhead and the skies open,
catching you in the downpour. After a sudden loud
crack a bolt of lightning streaks down from the clouds,
hitting the gibbet just as you are passing underneath
it. In a vivid explosion of light, the rope snaps and the
body falls on top of you, knocking you from your
mount on to the sodden ground {lose 1 STAMINA
point). Horrified, you push the corpse away from you
and pick yourself up out of the mud. Suddenly the
body springs to its feet and its diseased yellow eyes
flick open, The Lich has been animated by the corrup-
tion that is infecting the land and you must fight it. If
you have the Holy Strike Special Skill and wish to use
it, turn to 65. If you do not, you draw your weapon
and engage in combat in the driving rain.

LICH SKILL 8 STAMINA 9

284

After three Attack Rounds, if the battle is not over
you must reduce your Attack Strength by i point
because the road has turned to mud and you are
fighting in it up to your ankles. If you win, turn to
181.

284

Dismounting, you tether Firemane and quickly formu-
late a plan to rescue the villagers. [t must be the
shaman’s Chaos magic that is preventing the prisoners
from saving themselves, so, if you could stop him, you
could break his hold on the villagers’ minds. Keeping
low and making use of any cover you can find, you
creep past the Beast Men towards the Wicker Man.
Test your Skill three times. If you fail on any of the
rolls, you are spotted; turn to 265. If you succeed on
every roll, turn to 171

285-286

285

It is mid-morning when you enter a pleasant valley, at
the bottom of which nestles the settlement of Wende-
ford. To the west lies an area of woodland, while on
the distant horizon you can make out the dark edge of
the Forest of Lein. The road on which you are travel-
ling runs on southwards, out of the village, to Havalok;
but you feel you may gleam information here that
could be of use to you on your quest. For a start, you
know that the reclusive sage, Herluin, lives not far
from the village. Do you want to try to find out more
here in Wendeford (turn to 317) or, as time is precious,
will you ride straight through (turn to 49)?

286

Suddenly it dawns on you what you have to do
Laying down your weapon, you kneel before the
horror and bow your head: the double, you realize, is
a manifestation of the dark side of your nature. All the
hatred, anger, malice, envy and pride that lurk deep

236

inside you stand before you now, multiplied and
exaggerated out of all proportion. However, by submit-
ting to the double, you are admitting that the negative
qualities it displays are part of you. Knowing and
facing one’s own weaknesses is a sign of strength and
courage. The double raises its weapon to slay you —
then vanishes. Now you understand: everything you
have encountered in the shrine has been in your own
mind, nothing but illusions. If you have fought any
battles here, restore any STAMINA points you may
have lost in combat.

The golden doors swing open, allowing you to enter
the inner sanctum, At the end of a short hall stands a
stone altar with golden drapes and, behind that, the
massive golden statue of a heavily armed warrior:
Telak the Swordbearer, God of Courage and patron of
your holy order. Lying on the altar is the object of
your quest: Aelfgar the Elf-Spear. It is a marvellous
weapon, one metre in length, its tip made from the
purest silver and its shaft fashioned from wood from
the Forest of Lein, Eleven bands of Elven runes, picked
out in silver, surround the shaft, and as you take the
spear in your hands they glow with divine energy. If
you have the Spear Weapon Special Skill, you may use
Aelfgar in combat and add 1 to your Attack Strength
while wielding it, The Elf-Spear will also injure undead
and Demons. Offering a prayer of thanks to Telak,
you feel that a great weight has been lifted from you.
(Cross any fear you may have off your Adventure Sheet
and regain 1 Luck point.) Do you have a shield? If
you have, tum to 344; if you haven’t, turn to 23.

287-288

287

A split second after you nip into the secret passage
the temple roof caves in, blocking the way back and
burying alive all those still trapped inside. As you run
along the damp tunnel, it slopes upwards until you
burst through a fern-shrouded opening and find your-
self in a clearing in the forest. The trees in this area are
stunted and mis-shapen, while the undergrowth is
being throttled by weeds and brambles. Bryar is stand-
ing, a few metres from you, holding his twisted staff
which has a weasel’s skull fixed to the top. Before you
can react, he waves the staff in the air and the weeds
surrounding the clearing shoot towards you. If you
have a Cleric’s Talisman, tum to 8g; if you do not,
turn to 272.

288

‘Gladly,’ Varen says. ‘If that is how I can help destroy
the corruption that is infecting our land, then that is
what I must do. However, my men will need time to
prepare, so it would be best if you continue your
quest, and my soldiers will join you later’ You agree
to meet at the deserted outpost of Harnwatch, two
days from now, (Write the word ‘Ecrof’ on your
Adventure Sheet.) Turn to 82.
289-292

289
The flickering light from your lantern casts eerie shad-
ows on the morbid carvings that adorn the walls of
the sepulchre when you descend into its depths. If you
have the Commune Special Skill, tum to 153. If you do
not, Test your Luck. If you are Lucky, turn to 243; if
you are Unlucky, turn to 153

290
Standing in front of the large double-doors, the aura of
the enchantments binding them is tangible and fills
you with dread. You are sure something of a magical
nature will be required to open these doors and that
without such an item you will be unable to pass
through them. As you do not carry any Chaotic
artefacts you will need something else. If you have
some sap from the Forest of Lein, now may be the time
to use it (turn to 129). If you haven't any, turn to 388.

29%

You come across clear signs that the boar travelled
this way not long ago, in the direction leading away
from you and further into the ancient woodland.
Quickly you set off after your prey. Test your Skill,
adding 1 to the dice roll if you do not have the
Tracking Special Skill, but subtracting 1 from the dice
roll if you have a Hunting Charm. If you are successful,
turn to 343. If you fail, turn to 30.

292
The wicked hag throws some dust in your eyes that
makes your reactions sluggish (reduce your Attack

293

Strength by 1 point for this combat), before lunging at
you with her bone dagger.

CRONE

lf you win, you settle down in the cave to sleep. You
wake up the next day, eager to be on your way
\festore 2 STAMINA points and add 1 day to the Time
Elapsed). Searching the cave, you decide to leave the
crone’s sorcerous brews and possessions well alone,
but you do find two rabbits hanging up (enough for
one meal each) and you take them with you. Remount-
ing Firemane, you rejoin the road and ride towards
Ennox. Tum to 379.

SKILL 6 STAMINA 5

293

While you have been dealing with two of your oppo-
nents, the third murderer attempts to make his escape.
You will have to stop the rogue If you have a
crossbow, you may use it now; if you are successful in
its use, turn to 253. If you fail, or if you do not have a
crossbow (or you do not wish to use it), you will have
to pursue the felon on Firemane; turn to 3.

294

294
Making your way cautiously along the passage, it is
not long before you step through an archway into a
high-roofed chamber. The stone floor is littered with
straw and bones of many creatures, some human. Set
into the ceiling, some metres above your head, is a
large grille through which you can see the deep blue
of the night sky. A small wooden door in the wall
opposite leads out of the chamber. However, as you
step into the pit you disturb its occupant. With a roar
a gigantic, Dragon-like creature emerges from a
gloomy comer of the pit. It is wingless and its rough
hide is scaly. Its enormous jaws are lined with razor-
sharp teeth, but the monster's eyes do not hold the
glint of intelligence of dragonkind. Its great tail lashes
around, blocking the way back If you want to avoid
having to fight the beast, you can make a run for the
far door. If you do this, Test your Luck. If you are
Lucky, you dash across the pit and, opening the door,
run through it (turn to 329); if you are Unlucky, the
monster strikes you with a great clawed foot (lose 2
STAMINA points) and you have to turn and fight.

REPTILIAN SKILL 10 STAMINA 15

If you slay this mighty beast, you step over its prone
body and, opening the wooden door, leave the pit.
Tum to 329.

295

295
Opening the door, you step into the night. Everything
is still, with nothing seemingly out of the ordinary.
Walking further, you suddenly freeze, hearing up ahead
sounds of panting that are approaching rapidly. Then
you see them: scores of blazing red eyes appear out of
the darkness as in horror you see the pack of huge,
midnight-black dogs bearing down on you across the
moor. It would be foolish to try to face the whole
pack in such an exposed position, so you tum on your
heels and run back towards the forge. Torrin stands at
the open doorway yelling for you to hurry. Roll two
dice; the total is the distance you have to cover before
you reach safety. Now roll two dice again. If the total
is less than the distance you have to cover, tum to
359; if it is greater than that distance, tum to 398. If
the two numbers are the same, Test your Luck: if you
are Lucky, turn to 398; if not, turn to 359.

296

296

After you have put several kilometres between you
and the Chaos Beast Men’s camp, you stop to rest.
When you wake up again, you find that you have
slept well into the next day (restore 2 STAMINA points
and add 1 day to the Time Elapsed). The desolate
landscape of the Banarask Hills is unchanging as you
tide on under the cold grey sky for several hours. And
then you see it: on a hilltop stand the dark ruined
towers of Caer Skaal, the Fortress of the Skull. From
here you can see its grim keep, still intact after surviv-
ing the onslaught of the besieging crusaders a century
ago. Black flags fly from its crenellated turrets, the
sight of which fills you with unease. Before you can
reach the forbidding castle, you must first cross the
ancient battlefield on which the final battle of the
Crusade against Chaos was fought, It was on this field
that Belgaroth was felled in battle by Sir Rhyaddan the
Crusader, along with his Chaos Knights, The battlefield
is shrouded in a thick pall of mist, and here and there
you can make out the indistinct shapes of broken
weapons, war-engines and the skeletal remains of ar-
moured warriors, You half expect the bodies of the
fallen to rise up against you as you ride out across the
ancient battle-site.

A large raven sits perched on the branch of a lone
gnarled and leafless tree near by. Seeing you, it gives a
hoarse croaking cry then flaps off through the mists
towards the fortress. A moment later you hear the
sound of hoofs galloping towards you. Trailing tendrils
of vapour, a black horse with its rider emerges out of
297

the mists. The knight is covered from head to foot in
shining black spiked plate armour. His helmet is horned
and decorated with weird patterns inlaid with red
tracery, as is the rest of his armour. The Chaos Knight
levels his black lance and spurs his steed on towards
you without saying a word. You must overcome
Belgaroth’s champion in a deadly joust. If you do not
have a lance, or if you do have one but don’t have the
Lance Special Skill, you must reduce your Attack
Strength by 1 point for the duration of this battle, and
by 1 further point if you do not possess the Ride
Special Skill. .

CHAOS KNIGHT

CHAMPION SKILL 12 STAMINA 12

it the Chaos Knight wins two Attack Rounds, you are
unhorsed (lose 4 STAMINA points of damage rather
than the usual 2) and you must fight on with your
nurmal weapon aid your Attack Strensth reduced by
= points. If you are using a lance and you win two
Attack Rounds before the Chaos Knight does, you
unhorse him and may increase your Attack Strength
by 2 points. If you win this deadly contest, tum to

297
What will you use to defend yourself against these
strange creatures?

A Cleric’s Talisman? Turn to 140
The potion Witherwell? Turn to 349
Your weapon? Tum to 18

298-301

298
You feel a clammy hand grip your leg and, looking down,
you see that the leper, who embodies plague and
pestilence in the land, has touched you. As he is
swallowed up by the crowd you hear him say ina harsh
whisper, ‘So my fate shall be yours.’ Youhave been cursed
with the leper’s terrible wasting disease. (Lose 3 STAMINA
points, 1 SKILL point and 1 Lucx point; also write down
the word ‘Eugalp’ on your Adventure Sheet.) Turn to 114.

299
As you prepare your crossbow, Belgaroth lets fly
bolt of dark energy from his hands; it slams into your
body, causing you to drop the crossbow and throwing
you back across the room into the wall (lose 5
STAMINA points). Turn to 162.

300
Drawing your weapon, you defend yourself against
these venomous adversaries. Fight them as if they
were a single opponent.

SNAKES SKILL 8

Unless you are able to drink the potion Antitoxin,
each time the snakes strike you successfully, you must
lose 4 STAMINA points because of their poisonous
bites. If you win, you have managed to clear yourself
a way across the cavern. Turn to 27.

STAMINA I1

301
Your reactions are not quick enough and you are hit
by one of the cart’s shafts (lose 3 STAMINA points). By
302-304

the time you have picked yourself up, your quarry are
long gone and not even the Tracking Special Skill will
enable you to pursue them further, as there is no trail
to follow on the hard cobbles. Lose 1 Ltucx point.
Returning to the square and Firemane, you find the
Watch leading the dragon mummers away to the
town cells. You explain to them that, unfortunately,
the rest of the gang have escaped, and then leave (turn

to 45)

_ 502

Just when it looks as though victory is yours, you hear
the animal roars and cries of a band of chaotic reinforce-
ments making for the twilight battlefield from the
direction of the decimated village. Do you want to
fight on (turn to 207), or will you command your men
to retreat and you yourself try to break through the
enemy lines on Firemane, to continue with your mis-
sion (turn to 322)?

303
Your blast of holy energy hits the ghost, apparently to
no effect. The spirit cannot be truly evil: it is merely a
portent, possibly a sign of what is to come. The
knight turns to face you and prepares to attack (tum

to 255).

304.
Just as you are unsheathing your weapon, the appari-
tion cries out, ‘No!’ You pause, then see that the ghost
is that of an ageing priest, Sensing its goodness, you
listen as it speaks to you: ‘My name is Guildas and |

305-306

was once the priest of Myrton. 1 have been dead for
many decades, as has the foul Necromage. There is
sickness in the land and this has caused his return.
While he lives, none here may rest in peace. A coura-
geous knight lies to the south and may have weapons
that would help you defeat the undead lord who
reigns here. To find the Necromage, speak his name
before the Door of Skulls. Now go and free the poor
souls enslaved by him.’ With that, the ghost fades from
view. If you ever find yourself in front of the Door of
Skulls, and you know the Necromage’s name, convert
it into a number using the code, A = 1,B = 2,C = 3
_., Z = 26, Total the numbers which correspond to
the letters in his name, then multiply the total by five
and turn to the paragraph with that number. Without
further hesitation, will you look for the knight’s tomb
by going south (turn to 361) or will you follow the
western passage (turn to 391)?

305
Inside a shattered earthenware pot you find a small
iron key and a hunting charm that has been carved
from a piece of bone to resemble a wild boar. Some
people believe that such a charm gives a hunter a
better chance of successfully tracking prey. Return to

274.

306
It is not far from here to the ruined outpost of
Harnwatch, where you have arranged to meet your
army. The outpost has been deserted since the Crusade
against Chaos, a century ago. All that remains of it
507-308

now is a crumbling stone stockade, Waiting, hidden
inside its walls, is your force of brave warriors. Before
you engage the enemy in battle, you must determine
your army's Battle Strength, which at present is zero,
Consult the table below and total up the points given
for each fighting unit you have comprising your army:

Lord Varen of Cleeve Manor's soldiers 4 points
Nasra Stronn’s Mercenaries from Havalok 5 points
The villagers of Assart 3 points
Carass’s Town Militia 4 points

This total is your Battle Strength. If you have the
Battle Tactics Special Skill, you may add 2 more points
to your Battle Strength.

There is no time to lose, so, your army ready, you set
off into the Banarask Hills towards the Fortress of the
Skull. If you have taken more than six days to get this
far, turn to 355. If you have taken six days or less,
turn to 184,

307

‘Password!’ a voice hisses from behind the doors. If
you know the password, convert it into a number,
using the code A= 1,B=2,C =3... Z = 26.
Add the number corresponding to the letters in the
password together then tum to the paragraph with the
same number as the total. If you do not know the
password, turn to 225

308
If you are going to search for Aelfgar, you must know

309

where it is — but do you know how to get there? If
you do, you will have found three clues that give you
directions to the Elf-Spear’s resting-place. There is a
number hidden somewhere in each clue. Put the three
numbers together in sequence, in the order in which
you found them, to give you a fourth three-digit
number, and turn to that paragraph. If you do not
have all the clues, you will have to abandon your
guest for Aelfgar and head south (turn to 48).

309
Although the track is several days old, you can still
tell that a very large animal has passed along the
right-hand path. However, along the path to the left
you can just make out some faint humanoid footprints
leading both towards the fork and away from it Now,
will you take the left (turn to 385) or the right track
(turn fo 291)?
310-312

310

With a tremendous splintering crash, a huge black
shape smashes through a window near you, showering
you with shards of broken glass, and lands in a crouch
in the centre of the room. The beast is midnight-black
in colour and is as large as a wolf. Snarling, the
Hellhound turns to face you, baring its black teeth,
then it springs, There is no time to use your powers
against it, Once again you are fighting for your life,
while Torrin tries to secure the window.

HELLHOUND SKILL 7 STAMINA ©

As well as its savage bite and sharp claws, the demonic
creature has another attack: it can also shoot gouts of
flame out of its mouth After each Attack Round, roll
one dice. If you roll 1 or 2, the monster’s fiery breath
burns you for 1 additional point of sraAMINA damage.
If you kill the Hellhound, turn to 115

ter

The staircase takes you up to another chamber with
another iron-bound door, From behind this door comes
a steady rhythmic clanking and grating. Do you want
to open this door (turn to 61) or will you climb the
staircase to the next level (turn to 359)?

312

Seeing his creation destroyed, the priest panics and
tries to flee. You want to know what has been going
on here, so you chase after the man. Test your Luck. If
you are Lucky, turn to 394. If you are Unlucky, turn
to 264,
313

313
You find a crack between one section of wall and the
floor, and a loose brick. When you push the brick, the
wall swings open to reveal a short passageway, which
ends in an omately carved oak door; inscribed on it is
a strange magical symbol, but there is no lock or
handle. You have heard of such spell-locks and you
know that you will be unable to force entry here. The
only way through is to decode the number hidden in
the symbol.

314-315

If you can work out what the number is, turn to the
paragraph with that number. If you are unable to
break the spell-lock, you will have to return to the
portcullis; turn to 212.

314
Leading Firemane towards the South Gate, you pass

through a square where a crowd of people seem to be
enjoying some spectacle or other. As you get closer,
you see that a crude stage has been set up in the
square and over this is stretched a moth-eaten banner
with the words ‘Oddfellow’s Mummers’ painted across
it, Occasional gasps of amazement and peals of laugh-
ter rise from the crowd as they watch the show being
put on by the travelling players. Do you want to
pause for a moment to watch the mummers (tum to
188) or do you prefer to make for the South Gate
(turn to 45)?

315
Showing Elaina the Arch-Cleric’s staff, you tell her
how you vanquished the Darkthom and its servants
‘By this heroic action you have helped in part to
testore the elemental powers of the forest and halt the
sickness affecting it. Erillia, the Elf Mother, will bless
you for this, and you certainly deserve our aid’ The
sorceress-priestess takes an ornate bottle from an Elf
and hands it to you. ‘This bottle contains some of the
very life-blood of Lein: sap taken from the trees in this
ancient forest. Keep it safe and use it wisely, and the
prophecy will be fulfilled” Before the Elves lead you
away from their sacred grove and vanish back into the

316-318

undergrowth, they also give you an Elven Amulet
Filled with hope once more, you hurry on your way
Turn to 278,

316
Which of the mounds will you explore now: the
northern mound (turn to g5); the southern one (turn to
175); the eastern one (turn to 339) or the western one
(turn to 350); or will you leave the Cairns of
Dunar (turn to 202)?

317

Wendeford’s only inn is the Bristling Boar, and you
decide that this would be as good a place as any in
which to acquire information. Inside, the bar is dark
and musty, although the clientele seems friendly
enough. ‘Well, what can we do for you?’ asks the
rotund landlady. If you want to buy a drink, a tankard
of ale will cost you 1 Gold Piece and will restore up to
2. points of STAMINA, What will you ask the landlady?

Where you can find Herluin the
Sage? Turn to 362

About any local rumours? Turn to 268
About the inn’s name, if you are
curious? Turn to 134

318
You have no time to prepare any other defence as
Belgaroth unleashes the dark bolt at you. It hits you
squarely in the chest, knocking you from the back of
the Celastrix. Over the rushing of the wind you can

519

hear the Dread Lord’s evil laughter in your ears as you
plunge to your death

519

The villagers are very understanding of your reasons
and they wish you well in your quest, but you leave
Assart under a veil of fear and despair. Undoubtedly
you have doomed the village to death and just as
surely you have broken the Oath of the Templars,
bringing shame and infamy on your holy order (lose 2
HONOUR points). At the edge of the forest, not far
from the village, you discover a woodman’s abandoned
hut and decide to sleep here for the night. If you have
the word ‘Reggad’ written down on your Adventure
Sheet, tum to 371, Otherwise, that night your dreams
are filled with images of horrific undead. You wake up
the next morning only partially refreshed and set off
quickly southwards. Regain 1 STAMINA point and add
i day to the Time Elapsed. Turn to 48.

320-322

320
As you draw your weapon, you feel a tingling sensa-
tion in the finger on which you are wearing the ring
Distracted for a moment, you look down and see a
shield of golden light flicker into existence on your
arm; this is powerful magic indeed. Whenever you find
yourself in combat, while you are wearing the Shield
Ring this magical shield will appear and protect you
from an enemy’s blows (reduce your opponent’s Attack
Strength by 1 point). Add 1 Luck point and return to
391 to fight the skeletal dog,

meri
Reversing the Demon Summoning Spell will not be
easy while the raging Demonic Slayer is in the room
with you! Test your Skill and add 1 to the roll. If you
are successful, you manage to read part of the spell
backwards while avoiding the creature's attack. If you
fail, the Slayer hits you while your guard is down (lose
3 STAMINA points), You must repeat this process until
you have made the roll successfully three times. If you
achieve this, turn to 128. If you fail two consecutive
rolls, the Demon knocks the book out of your hands;
tum to 1%. You can abandon this line of defence
whenever you want to by turning to 13.

322
With a shout, you kick your heels into Firemane’s
sides and rush straight at the enemy lines, You fell
several of the Beast Men in your charge and break
through their ranks before the reinforcements arrive
Your soldiers scatter and flee southwards, towards

323

Harnwatch. The exhausted chaotics follow only a short
way before stopping and raising a great hooting cheer,
believing they have routed your troops. You ride in a
wide circle round the Beast Men’s camp, avoiding any
unwanted attention, From your vantage point you can
see the stockade quite clearly among the ruined houses.
You cannot see any people, and there appears to be
only one guard at the stockade’s entrance. Do you
want to tether Firemane here and sneak into the Beast
Men’s camp for further investigation, now that night
has fallen (turn to 340), or do you want to ride on,
away from here (turn to 296)?

323

A bitterly cold wind is howling over the moors as you
and Firemane journey across the desolate heath. After
two hours’ ride you see a single standing stone rising
up out of the otherwise featureless landscape. Known
as the Maiden, the stone once had the carving of a
young woman on it, but this has been almost com-
pletely eroded by time and the weather. If you have
the Commune Special Skill, turn to 380, If you haven't,
Test your Luck: if you are Lucky, tum to 380; if you are
not, turn to 263

324-325

324
The sun is sinking towards the horizon as dusk ap-
proaches, and under the trees a grey twilight permeates
every nook and hollow. Firemane steps warily over
tree boles and exposed roots and you start to think
about making camp for the night. You bring your
steed to a halt in a small clearing that is littered with
fallen leaves and with a fungus-covered log lying at its
edge. As you dismount, you hear a rustling souad and
stare in startled amazement as the leaves draw them-
selves together into a shape that then stands upright;
the figure now looks like a man covered from head to
toe in leaves. At the same time, the ‘log’ starts to
unfold with a creaking sound and, looking like a
humanoid with bark for skin and with fungus growing
out of it, gets to its feet. The leaf-man stretches out an
arm towards you and you recover your amazed state.
Will you move to defend yourself (tum to 297) or
wait for these strange humanoids to make the first
move {turn to 76)?

325
Cleeve Manor is served by a small hamlet, including a
smithy, and is surrounded by a number of small farms.
You arrive at dusk and, as soon as you have dis-
mounted, you are taken to the great hall by the
steward of the manor, while Firemane is led away to
be stabled, Inside, the hall is a picture of bustle and
activity. Long trestle tables are being laid with food
and drink and a large woman is supervising the cook-
ing of venison on a spit in the middle of the room,
while a minstrel band starts playing a popular tune, In
326-327

one comer of the hall, a man-at-arms is playing some
kind of board game with two labourers. Large tapes-
tries cover the walls of the hall; above the lord’s table
on the raised dais at the end of the room hang
decorative shields and the coats-of-arms of several
noble families, while at the opposite end of the cham-
ber are mounted the trophies of hunting expeditions,
The steward explains that the feast to be held here
will begin very shortly. Before it does so and while
you are waiting, he will be happy to show you round
the hall, Do you want fo:

Study the tapestries? Tum to 344
Watch the board game? Turn to 244
Look more closely at the trophies? Turn to 68

Listen to the minstrels? Tum to 281
326
Reaching the edge of the stockade safely, you hide in
the shadows, The Beast Man on guard has the head of a
boar, and spittle drools over its large yellow tusks. It is
armed with a halberd and round shield, and torches are
burning on either side of the entrance it is guarding. The
sharpened stakes of the stockade look far too tall and
treacherous to climb, so how will you get in? Will you:

Attack the guard? Tum to 386
Try to distract it and sneak past? Turn to 151
Bluff your way in? Turn to 226

327
Not far into the hills, you find the entrance to a large
cave: the perfect place to shelter. As you lead Firemane

328-329

towards it, however, you see that the cave mouth has
been crudely decorated by someone, or something,
with animal skulls and skins. Then an old hag appears
at the opening; she is wearing ragged robes and
necklaces of teeth and is yelling at you angrily and
waving her arms frantically. Do you want to attack
the crone (turn to 292), or do you prefer to speak to
her and calm her down (turn to 135)?

328
Using up the last of its fire-breath, the dragon lets out
a blast of flame directly at the crowd, who flee in
panic, so giving the other mummers a chance to
escape. The dragon-costumed players then run at you,
trying to batter you with its wings and bite you with
the rather too realistic jaws.

MUMMERS’ DRAGON SKILL 8 STAMINA 7

If you win, you do not actually kill the people in the
costume but merely disable the contraption they are
wearing and leave the mummers unable to escape
(turn to 387}.

329
You find yourself walking along the stone-faced corri-
dor. With a sucking sound, something drops on to the
ground behind you and you recognize the jelly-like
creature as an Iron-Eater These amoeboid animals are
not camivores but instead, as their name suggests,
feed on metal. Moving carefully forward, you hear
another creature detach itself from the ceiling of the
passage above you.

330°

IRON-EATER STAMINA $

SKILL 4

Roll as usual for the first Attack Round. If the Iron-
Eater loses the Attack Round, it misses you, hitting
the floor, and can easily be dispatched with one blow
lf the creature wins, it lands on top of you and starts
to feed: cross off one piece of armour from your
Adventure Sheet, and lose any bonuses that go with it
Then fight the battle in the usual way. If you win an
Attack Round, you manage to knock the Iron-Eater
off; if not, it destroys another item of armour. Once
you have defeated the giant amoeba, turn to 47

350
The voice addresses you, saying simply, Enter.’ The
great stone doors swing open and you step between
them into the shrine. You walk along a pillared corm-
dor, lit by a golden glow from the ceiling, past statues
of knights and warriors, standing to attention or a?
prayer, your footsteps on the stone floor the only
sound, The corridor ends at a large circular chamber

the floor of which is a mosaic showing the badge o

the Templars. In front of you is another set of double
doors, but these are plated with gold and adorned with
two huge dragon carvings. The beauty and majesty of the
place fill you with awe and wonder. Even as you are
marvelling at the intricacies of the decoration of the
shrine, something is happening in the centre of the room:
[f you suffer from the Fear of Spiders, turn to 366. If you
are afflicted with the Fear of Snakes, turn to 273. If you
have the Fear of Heights, turn to 165. If you suffer from
none of these fears, turn to 222

35524

3351
Horrified, you now see that the monster is foaming at
both of its mouths — it is rabid! Slavering at the
prospect of having you as a tasty meal, the Chaos
Hound springs at you, straining at its chain.

RABID CHAOS HOUND

During every Attack Round, each of the monster's
heads will attack you, so you must treat it as two
opponents. On the fifth Attack Round, turn to 39. If
you win the fight before the fifth Attack Round and if
you were bitten at least once by the hound, you must
lose an additional 2 STAMINA points from its rabid
bite (4 points if you have the word ‘Eugalp’ written on
your Adventure Sheet). If you are stil! alive, you enter
the hall (turn to 110).

SKILL 7 STAMINA 7

352

332

Eventually you rejoin the main road heading south,
and by late afternoon you come in sight of the edge
of the great Forest of Lein. Not far along the track you
reach the village of Assart, built in a huge clearing
inside the border of the forest. As you ride into the
village you see a group of people in fierce debate. ‘But
if we don’t do something we're all as good as dead!’ a
young, scholarly-looking man is saying desperately.

‘What can we do?’ a burly forester replies. ‘There are
too many of them, and more come each night. There
are those who would be willing to fight if we had a
strong leader to take us into battle.’

Failing that, we need someone who would be prepared
to go there alone and kill the Necromancer,’ an old
woman declares. She suddenly catches sight of you
and adds, ‘Someone like a Templar.’ You ask the group
what the problem is, and the old wisewoman tells you
about the Necromancer and the ghost village, ‘Not far
from here, to the west, lies what's left of the village of
Myrton. It’s been deserted for years and most of it’s in
ruins now — but no one’s ever been there because of
the stories. A Necromancer lies buried there and people
do say that the place is haunted. But now it looks as if
the tales are true, for last Moonsday night the dead of
Myrton rose from their graves and attacked our village,
carrying off three people. They've been back every
night since, their number increasing all the time, so we
have to lock ourselves in our homes. Four more were
taken last night. It seems as if the Necromancer is back
and is building himself an army of the undead.’ It

333

certainly does, but you cannot help thinking that
Belgaroth’s corruption and Chaos may be the source
of this problem, ‘Everyone in Assart’s afraid,’ the
woman continues, ‘and no one dares go to Myrton
itself, not even during the day. Will you help us?’ Will
you help the people of Assart (turn to 148) or, still
having several days’ travel ahead of you, will you go
directly for what you think is the root of the problem
turn to 319)?

333
Chaos Knights and Warriors are storming on to the

battlements from all directions. Using your lantern,
you set fire to the feather and call the name of the
Celastrix three times, A brilliant light immediately
appears on the southern horizon and soars across the
night sky towards you. The dazzling bird, its radiance
ighting up the battlements, alights on the roof of the
cower and allows you to climb on ta its back, while
Belgaroth’s hordes cower in fear. Hold on tight, my
‘rend, you hear its warm tones say within your mind
Gripping on to the divine bird’s crest of feathers, you
nang on when the Celastrix beats its great wings and
rises into the sky. Riding on the back of a huge bird is

3354-3350

not easy, as it climbs steeply into the wind. Test your
Skill, adding 2 to the dice roll if you suffer from the
Fear of Heights but subtracting 2 from the dice roll if
you have the Ride Special Skill, If you succeed, turn to
396. If you fail, turn to 282.

334
As you lead Firemane along the main street that leads

to Havalok’s market, you pass a shop decorated with
esoteric symbols. An elaborately painted sign over the
front informs you that this is ‘The Mind’s Eye’. Would
you like to enter this unusual establishment (turn to
367), or will you go to the market (tum to 248)?

335
Test your Skill, subtracting 2 from the dice roll if you

have the Tracking Special Skill. [fF you succeed, turn to
313. If you fail, you find nothing, so you double back
to the portcullis; turn to 212

336

Havgar was a legendary hero from the times before
the founding of your order. Single-handedly he van-
quished a tribe of Giants, killing the chief with one
blow from his huge, spiked club. Havgar’s mace breaks
bone and stone with equal ease and will do 3 sTAMINA
points of damage. However, because of its weight
unless you have a Weapon Special Skil! in using a
Mace you must reduce your Attack Strength by i
point when fighting with it (make a note of this in the
Weapon box of your Adventure Sheet). Now retum tc
356

337

337
All the opened graves seem to be empty; no doubt

their occupants are among the undead army attacking
Assart. However, you find that the rotted wooden
coffin at the bottom of one grave has been left
undisturbed. The epitaph on the tombstone reads:
Guildas, Priest of Myrton. Left this life aged 75 years. As
you are reading this inscription, there is a terrible
splintering sound and a grotesque mandibled head
bursts through the lid of the coffin. This is followed
by a slime-covered, worm-like body which swiftly
wraps itself round your legs as the creature tries to
bite you with its mandibles. Normally restricted to
eating the remains of the dead, the smell of hot blood
and living flesh has drawn the Grave-Worm out to
hunt.

GRAVE-WORM

If you kill this feeder on the dead, you decide not to
waste any more time but head for the sepulchre. Turn

10 QA.

SKILL & STAMINA O

338-339

338

Dusk falls as you ride south through the bleak high-
lands. However, just as you are considering making
camp for the night, you breast a rise, to see a bizarre
ritual taking place. A horde of beast-headed, inhuman
creatures is gathered at the foot of a small mound on
which stands a huge wicker structure; it is made out of
cages of wooden poles, lashed together in the shape of
a giant man. The Wicker Man is packed with live
human prisoners who are doing nothing to try to
escape, as if they were under a hypnotic spell, The
Beast Men are making a terrific din, braying, roaring,
bellowing and banging weapons against their shields.
Some hold torches aloft and all are watching a smaller
figure who is chanting and carrying out a peculiar
dance between the feet of the wicker structure This
figure is dressed in weird-patterned robes and has a
pair of antlers growing out of its hideous, bestial skull.
It looks as if the captured villagers inside the funeral
pyre formed by the Wicker Man are about to be
sacrificed by the shaman to the Dark Lords of Chaos
Will you try to rescue the villagers (turn to 284) or
will you ride on towards Caer Skaal (turn to 399)?

339
Inside the barrow is a circular chamber which contains

nothing of any use to you. However, it is home to a
nest of Giant Spider's eggs which have just hatched.
The Spiderlings drop on you from the roof of the
chamber and bite you before you can brush them off
and escape. This strain of spider also happens to be
venomous. Roll one dice and add 2. This is how many

_ _ Eee
340-342

points of damage to your sTAMINA the Spiderlings’
injected poison does. If you have some Antitoxin, you
may halve the damage done {rounding fractions down).
If you have a Fear of Spiders, you run from the mound,
screaming in terror, ready to flee the cairns altogether
(turn to 202). If you do not have such a fear, turn to 316.

340
You enter the village unnoticed and make silently but
swiftly for the stockade. Test your Luck. If you are
Lucky, turn to 326. If you are Unlucky, turn to 393.

341

Most of the tapestries carry the usual designs of
fabulous beasts and knights on horseback, but there is
one that stands out from all the others. It covers half
of one wall and shows a man with a pack of hounds
fighting a huge wild boar. The steward explains that
the tapestry depicts part of the legend of the Great
Boar of Lein, when the monster was finally caught and
killed by a brave hunter. Almost hidden among the
embroidered trees of the forest, watching the scene,
you pick out a group of men and women who seem to
be covered from head to toe in leaves. Turn to 40

342
You throw 2 portions of your Provisions, one for each

head, as far from the doorway as possible but still
within reach of the chained beast (cross these off your
Adventure Sheet}. The creature pounces on the food
and starts to gulp it down. You run past it, through
the doors and into the hall. Tum to 110.

343-345

Your skills do not fail you. You burst into a clearing
where a monstrous boar is rooting among the leaf
debris, doubtless looking for acorns. This creature
must be the Great Boar of Lein. Seeing you, it turns
and flees into the forest; however, before it leaves the
clearing you have time to use a crossbow once, if you
have one. Then you are off after the beast. As you
gallop through the trees in pursuit of your quarry,
your steed jumps over fallen branches and rocky
mounds. If you have the Ride Special Skill, turn to 256.
If you haven’t, Test your Skill. If you are successful,
tum to 256; if you fail, turn to 209.

34-4
What design does your shield carry? Is it that of a:
Griffin? Turn to 369
Golden Dragon? Tum to 395
Rampant Lion? Tum to 81
Flame? Turn to 186

If your shield does not bear any of these emblems,
nothing more happens, so you leave the shrine (turn
to 2%).

345
Screaming, the ghastly spectre lunges at you with

frightening speed and tries to slash you with its
clawed hands.

CAILLEACH
The Banshee’s spine-chilling how] proves a very off-

SKILL 12 STAMINA 12

340-347

putting distraction to you during this combat. At the
start of each Attack Round you must Test your Skill. If
you fail in the dice roll, the creature’s soul-rending
shrieks transfix you with fear and you will auto-
matically lose the Attack Round, If you defeat this
grisly undead horror, turn to 383.

346

A pair of feet slam into your chest, knocking you from
the saddle, and you land awkwardly on the road with
your assailant on top of you (lose 2 STAMINA points).
For a moment you wrestle with the man before you
manage to throw him off. Quickly you jump to your
feet and draw your weapon as two more figures
emerge from the copse, holding cudgels. The first
attacker pulls a long knife from his tunic and advances
towards you. ‘We're goin’ to slit yer throat, Templar!’
he spits, then the murderers are upon you. You must
fight them all at the same time.

SKILL STAMINA
First MURDERER a 6
Second MURDERER 6 8
Third MURDERER y, 7

As soon as you have dispatched two of your oppo-
nents, tun immediately to 293.

347
While Belgaroth’s men are distracted by having to

fight the town militia, you scramble across the wreck-
age between the ruins of the south wall and the
Juggernaut. Hearing a shrill whinnying behind you,

548-349

you turn to see a great War-horse, its black armour
bearing the device of Belgaroth’s Chaos army, charging
towards you. Although riderless, the beast’s evil intent
is the same as that of its masters. Neighing, the horse
rears up on its hind legs and tries to strike you with its
iron-shod hoofs. Once again you are forced into retalia-
tion.

WAR-HORSE SKILL 8 STAMINA 9

If you win, turn to so.

348

‘Have faith, you say. ‘At this very moment I am on a
quest to rid the kingdom of this sickness and to save
Ruddlestone from bitter war and certain destruction
The Knights of Telak are not petty rogues and sabo-
teurs. We seek only peace and hope for the people of
Ruddlestone and, with courage, we shall overcome
this threat to the security of our country.” You continue
for several minutes in this vein, your speech slowly
restoring the people’s confidence in your order. When
at last you stop talking, the crowd cheers and parts to
let you pass, while the prophets bow and wish you
well on your quest. Turn to 200.

349
You throw the potion over the two plant-like human-

oids and they emit a shriek as they instantly begin to
dissolve. Soon nothing is left of the bizarre creatures
after the wind disperses their dry and brown residue
across the forest floor. Free now to go, you continue
on your way, Turn to 368.
350-351

350

A blood-curdling howl suddenly rings out over the
caims, making you freeze for a moment. What or
Titan could make such a mournful cry? Without waiting
to find out, you hurry into the tumulus. A series o:
stones lines the sides of the tunnel leading into the
burial place and, because of the occasional bone break-
ing through the earth, you guess that they mark long-
forgotten graves. Test your Luck, If you are Unlucky
you trip over a partially exposed ribcage and hit your
head on one of the stones (lose 2 STAMINA points), I?
you are Lucky, you suffer no such accident. At the enc
of the tunnel, a pyramid of human skulls half hides z
circular black shield bearing a white crescent-moor
motif If you take this shield (remember you can carn
only one shield at a time), you may reduce anv
opponent’s Attack Strength by 2 point in battle. Return-
ing to the stone circle, you decide where to go nexi
Tum to 316.

554

Having used all your skills of horsemanship anc
weapon mastery to defeat Belgaroth’s champion, you
are filled with new hope {regain 1 LucK point). You

351

ade on across the sterile plain towards Caer Skaal,
Firemane’s breath appearing as clouds of steam in the
cold air. As you near the castle, you notice that the
>roken battlements are in the course of being rebuilt.
The Dread Lord is strengthening the fortress’s de-
‘ences, preparing for war! Scanning the forbidding
walls, you see no sign of any guards. Perhaps Belgaroth
sid not expect to be challenged on his own soil, or
maybe he just did not expect any enemy to get this
far. Caer Skaal is surrounded on three sides by a steep
escarpment and the other approach is protected by the
posing gatehouse. However, on closer inspection
‘he gate has been left wide open, with the gatehouse
<self seemingly completely deserted. A_half-filled,
stench-like ditch, a relic, no doubt, of the time of the
Crusade, runs almost straight to the gate. Do you
‘want to use the ditch as cover and enter the fortress
chis way (turn to 363), or do you want to look for
znother way in (turn to 142)?

T Se

a5

ae Nt

352-353

352
With a shout you leap into the clearing. At once the
man jumps to his feet and turns to face you. Before
you can reach him, he pulls a phial from his robes and,
uncorking it, pours its contents on the ground, Dark
tendrils immediately break through the cracked earth
and with unnatural speed shoot up into the air. As you
watch, the thick stems and woody growths take on
humanoid form and in a matter of moments a grotesque
ceature is standing in front of you. Its body is covered
im sharp thorns and its head is flat and broad, with
large tooth-like growths protruding from its mouth. Its
eyes are translucent emerald orbs, and green veins
pulse al! over its body. The Thornbeast lifts one leg
and pulls a root-like foot out of the ground. It does
the same with the other, then begins to move towards
you across the clearing. You draw your weapon and
prepare to defend yourself against this plant-like
monster.

THORNBEAST SKILL 8 STAMINA 10

If you defeat the creature, write down the word
Nroht’ on your Adventure Sheet and turn to 312.

353
Hearing a movement in the undergrowth ahead of

you, you suddenly catch sight of the boar. It is a
monstrous creature with vicious-looking tusks and stiff
oristles running the length of its back. Then it is off
Urging Firemane forward, you set off after your quarry.
As you gallop through the trees in pursuit of the boar,
your steed jumps over fallen branches and rocky

3547355

mounds. If you have the Ride Special Skill, turn to 256.
If you do not, Test your Skill. If you are successful, tum
to 256; if you fail, turn to 209.

354

At your feet lies the body of Master Graye, the miller
of Wendeford, You cannot understand why he tried to
ambush you, so you set about searching the mill to
find some answers. In the miller’s living quarters you
find enough food for two meals, a pouch containing 6
Gold Pieces, a bottle full of some thick yellow liquid
that smells of herbs and a letter with a green wax seul
that has been broken, As well as his green hood, you
also find a cloak made of the same dyed cloth, (Write
down the word ‘Rellim’ on your Adventure Sheet.)
Having decided what you want to take with you, will
you now read the letter (tum to 377), drink some of
the liquid in the bottle (tum to 160), or leave the
Wendemill and the village (turn to 49)?

355
Dusk falls as you march into the hills. Gradually you

are becoming aware of a sound coming from some:
where in the distance ahead of you and, as it gets
louder, you can hear shouts, war-chants, terrible roaring
sounds and the thunder of hoofs on the ground. Then
you see them coming over a rise: Belgaroth’s army.
Charging towards you and your small force is a horde
of Orcs, some mounted on wolves; also Trolls, Ogres,
black-clad warriors, demonic Hellhounds and savage
Beast Men. Ahead of them ride the Chaos Knights of
Caer Skaal, their steeds mighty war-horses. Behind

356

them, riding a demonic winged horse with blood-red
eyes, is a shadowy figure whom you know to be the
warmongering Dread Lord Belgaroth himself. Under
the veil of night the Usurping Serpent is leading his
army towards the Citadel. You cannot hope to over-
come such incredible odds. It will not be long before
Ruddlestone is crushed beneath the Iron Fist,

356
As the ghost is sent on its way to its final astral
destination, it cries out, ‘Beware! Belgaroth livesss . . .”
Then it is gone.

The king thanks you for delivering him from the spirit
but, once you have recovered, he urges you to be on
your way. ‘The dead knight was a portent, maybe of
what was, what is, or what is to come. Since Belgaroth
himself has returned to our world, your mission be-
comes of the utmost urgency and importance. Equip
yourself from the armoury, but go with all haste,’

Bidding the king and his council farewell, you leave
the audience chamber and make for the Citadel's an-
cent, and much renowned, armoury. Inside the vast
cellar beneath the castle Werne the Armourer and his
team of weaponsmiths, metallurgists and engineers are
busy making and repairing weapons for the Knights of
Telak. Weme, a broad, well-built man stripped to the
waist and wearing a leather apron, puts down the
tongs he has been using and leads you to a large iron
door at one end of the armoury. He unlocks it with a
key selected from a large bunch hanging from his belt
and leads you inside. ‘This,’ he says, ‘is where we keep

556

the more precious weapons. Some once belonged to
the crusaders and heroes of the past.’

Looking around the vault, you see row upon row of
tacks, heavy with gleaming weapons and polished
armour. With Weme’s help you pick out several weap-
ons and pieces of armour that may be of use to you.
From the list of items below choose a maximum of
two to take on your quest (record them in the appropri-
ate boxes on your Adventure Sheet), then turn to the
paragraphs listed by them to find out more about your
choice. (Remember:‘you can only use one weapon at a
time and carry another on your steed, Firemane. If you
wish to take two weapons from the armoury, you
must discard your own magical sword.)

Turn to 336
Turn to 9

Havgar’s Mace
Paladin’s Lance
The Crossbow of Shamar the

Shield-Maiden Turn to 230
The Axe of Lothar of Crun Turn to 71
The Griffin Shield Tum to 32
Dwarven Breastplate Tum to 177
The Helmet of Ventarc Tum to 91

Iron Gauntlets Turn to 389

Once you have chosen your equipment, turn to 80.

357

357
The stone steps wind upwards for quite some way.

When at last they come to an end, you find yourself
standing inside a large guardroom. Fortunately, most
of the warriors who would normally be here are
outside fighting. However, two Chaos Warriors are
still here. They immediately rush at you, wielding
their deadly weapons

SKILL STAMINA
First CHAOS WARRIOR 9 8
Second CHAOS WARRIOR 8 9

If you win, you survey the guardroom. A plain wooden
door on your right goes out of here, and a short flight
of steps leads up to a trapdoor in the ceiling. Judging
by how far you have already climbed up the tower,
you guess that the trapdoor opens on to the roof, and
you have no reason for going up therel So, will you
descend the spiral staircase and open the door on the
floor below (turn to 61) or open the plain wooden
door in this room (turn to 390)?

358-359

358
Suddenly you find yourself facing a skeletal warrior
dressed in remnants of chainmail armour and wielding
a barbed longsword, The warrior has retained all its
fighting knowledge even in death There is no time te
use a crossbow or lance or any mystic skills before
you engage in combat.

UNDEAD CHAMPION SKILL 9 STAMINA 7

If you are using an edged or pointed weapon against
the skeleton, a successful strike will be turned by its
bones and do only 1 point of damage to its STAMINA
Smashing and crushing weapons, such as an axe, mace
or war-hammer, will do normal damage. If you van-
guish this opponent, the villagers fight on while you
go after the Necromancer. Turn to 31

359
Although you run as if the Demon-Lord Myurr himselt

were after you, you cannot outrun the Hellhounds
The hellish creatures leap on you and pull you to the
ground, Your adventure ends here.

EEE Eee

360-361

360

wWhat was it Connor's ghost said about the traitor?
The Raven will betray you.’ Of course, the black bird
:s a huge raven, Could it be that this is in fact the
craitor in another guise? ‘Speak the traitor’s true name
:o reveal the truth.’ If you think you know the identity
of the Raven, convert the traitor’s name into a number,
using the code A = 1, B = 2, C = 3 and so on, to
Z = 26, Total the numbers which correspond to the
‘etters in the traitor’s first and last names, then turn to
che paragraph with that number. If the paragraph
makes no sense, you are wrong in your assumption;
turn to 96. if you have no idea who the Raven is, turn
to 96

361
Entering a chamber at the end of the tunnel, you
behold a scene of destruction and desecration. The
crypt is full of stone coffins but every single one of
them has been broken open, and the bodies inside are
missing — every one, that is, except for a sarcophagus
resting on a plinth at the end of the chamber. Do you

362-363

want to open and search this last coffin (turn to 214),
or would you rather leave this crypt and search else-
where in the sepulchre (tum to 243 and make another
choice)?

362

‘That old recluse!’ the landlady exclaims, surprised
‘What do you want with him?’ You tell her that you
are just seeking his advice on a certain matter. ‘Well, if
it's about curing warts or when the next eclipse is,
don’t bother. He’s got no patience for time-wasters.
You persist, and she tells you that Herluin has his cell
in the woods to the west. If you want to follow her
directions and go in search of the sage, turn to 102
Otherwise, you can either ask the landlady about any
local rumours that may be going around (tum to 268),
ask her about the inn’s name (tum to 134) or leave
Wendeford and continue southwards (turn to 49).

363
Leaving Firemane, you duck down into the ditch and
creep along the muddy trench, hidden by clumps ot
grass growing over its edge, Ten metres trom the
fortress wall, having, made sure that the way ahead is
clear, you swiftly move from cover towards the open
archway. The dark towers and parapet of the gatehouse
are decorated with grotesque statues and carvings of

364

bestial winged creatures which seem to leer at you as
you pass beneath them. Entering the outer courtyard
of the fortress, you see the rotting skeletons of cata-
pults and ballistas used against the besieging forces of
the Warriors of Telak. Disused stables and out-houses
stand in ruins as they have done for years. There is no
sign of life ... or is there? Hearing a grating sound
behind you, you tum in time to see several of the
gargoyles from the gatehouse animate and launch
themselves into the air on great leathery wings. You
manage to draw your weapon just before the Gar-
goyles swoop down to attack you with rending claws
and talons. If you do not have a magical weapon, you
will be unable to make any impression on these evil
creatures’ stony hides and will quickly perish horribly
If you do have such a weapon, you must fight the
Gargoyles two at a time, with your Attack Strength
reduced by 1 point as the creatures can fly out of
reach of your blows.

SKILL STAMINA
First GARGOYLE 9 10
Second GARGOYLE 9 it
Third GARGOYLE 10 9
Fourth GARGOYLE 9 10

If you destroy all your ferocious attackers, turn to 384.

364
With a tremendous crash the roof of the temple caves
-n, burying alive all those still trapped inside, including
you, under tonnes of rubble and earth. Your adventure

iS OVET.

365-366

365

You guide Firemane through the undergrowth as
quickly as possible. As you get closer to the owner of
the voice, you notice that the number of briars and
weeds growing round the trees is increasing and that
the other plants of the forest look unhealthy and
stunted in their growth. Eventually you reach the
source of the chanting. You dismount and crouch
down, hidden by the undergrowth. A man, dressed in
long green robes, is kneeling in the middle of an area
of cleared ground, his hands pressed flat to the earth.
As he continues his strange chant, cracks begin to
appear across the ground as if the very life-giving
nutrients of the soil were being drained away. At the
same time, you can almost sense the weeds growing
round the edge of the clearing. What is going on here?
Do you want to burst into the clearing and interrupt
the man, who may be a priest of some kind (tum to
352), or will you leave the forest and head back to
Cleeve Manor (turn to 17)?

366
A huge, grotesque, bloated, black body, sprouting
eight hairy legs, materializes in the middle of the
chamber and, clicking its mandibles, scuttles towards
you. You are turned almost to stone as you stare
into the cold black orbs that are the creature’s eyes.
A monster from legend has returned to challenge
you — Veracna, Queen of Spiders, During this battle
you must reduce your Attack Strength by 2 points
because of the terror you feel at confronting the Giant
Spider.

367

VERACNA SKILL 9 STAMINA 10

If you are victorious, turn to 222.

367

A bell rings as you open the door and step into a
cramped room, furnished with drapes. Standing behind
a counter is a wizened old woman, “You'll be wanting
to see the Mistress of the Sight then?’ she says. ‘It'll
cost you five Gold Pieces for a consultation.’ Are you
willing to pay this fee and meet the Mistress of the
Sight (tum to 123), or would you rather leave and
continue on your way to the market (turn to 248)?

368

368
You find yourself in a large clearing with a roof
formed by a canopy of branches. Emerging from
among the trees and out of the undergrowth come
more of the strange plant-like people you have already
encountered. They look as if they are clothed entirely
in leaves, moss, bark, bracken and fungus, but you
know now that these are not clothes, Some of the men
and women have long green hair plaited with ivy and
other plants. They are all watching you intently, and
you feel the same scalp-tingling sensation you had in
the forest when you thought you were being watched
These man-like creatures are the Wodewose, also re-
ferred to in folklore as the Green Men. They are
primal spirits of the woods, ancient elemental beings
of nature. Two of the Wodewose hold your arms
while your weapon is taken from you. You are then
led to the far side of the clearing and made to kneel on
the ground in front of a screen of branches, The
branches are drawn apart and you find yourself facing
a huge figure, seated on a great chair that seems to be
rooted in the earth, The figure is a giant of a man,
wearing a robe of leaves. His beard and hair are green
and matted with moss, and his skin is grey and
cracked like bark, covered with knotty brown veins.
The giant's eyes are ringed like the stumps of branches,
and when he speaks his voice is like the creaking of
branches in the wind. ‘I am the Lord of the Forest,’ he
says. “You have trespassed in the forest and your
progress has been observed. This woodland comes
under my protection and | cannot allow it to be
harmed by careless humans. However, before I pass
368

judgement on you, you may speak and defend your
actions.’ Quickly you relate the events that have taken
place so far on your adventure and explain the nature
of your quest.

Read through the following list of actions that you
may have carried out to date in the forest or posses-
sions you may have acquired, and total the number of
points for all that apply:

For trespassing in the forest + 3 points
For hunting a wild boar in the forest + 2 points
For having some of the fungus Ironbane + 2 points

For having a Cleric’s Talisman — 1 point
For having a twisted staff — 1 point
For having the potion Witherwell + 4 points
For having an Elven Amulet — 1 point
For fighting Orc Wolf-Riders — 1 point
For fighting a Tree Man + 4 points
For killing one of the Wodewose + 5 points

Roll two dice. If the total is less than or equal to the
number of points you have scored, turn to 92. If the
total is higher, turn to 280.

369-371

369
As you kneel at the altar, the tiredness and pain in
your body ease and you feel invigorated. Restore your
STAMINA score to its Initial level. Having been blessed,
you leave the shrine (turn to 23).

370
The sharp crack on your skull sends you reeling (lose
2 STAMINA points). Roll four dice. If the total is less
than or equal to your sTAMINA score, tum to 106. If
your total is greater than your sTAMINA, turn to 59.

371
You awaken with a start when the moon is high in the
sky, convinced you heard the hut door creak. The
door is indeed open and there in front of you ... Oh
no, it cannot be! ts this a dagger you-see before youT
The ghostly hand glides towards you, poised and
ready to strike, Onve again you find yourself fighting
the spectral Assassin's Dagger. If you have some Holy
Oil, you cast it over your supernatural assailant and
the spirit dissolves into the night air, dropping the
dagger (cross the Holy Qil and the word ‘Reggad’ off
your Adventury Sheet; you may also take the dagger if

372

you wish) The rest of the night passes without inci-
dent; however, you are too het-up to get any proper
sleep. First thing next morning you set out, going
south, Add 1 day to the Time Elapsed and turn to 48,

If you do not have any way of banishing the spectral
hand, you must fight it once more.

ASSASSIN’S DAGGER SKILL 10

After four Attack Rounds, or if you win two con-
secutive Attack Rounds, you work yourself into a
position from which’ you can escape from the hut. You
run out. slamming the door behind you and trapping
the Assassin's Dagger inside while you fee on Fire-
mane. Several kilometres on, you stop but are unable
to sleep for the rest of the night. At dawn you are
more than ready to be off and soon you are again on
the road leading south Add 1 day to the Time
Elapsed and turn to 48

VE

The spores of the fungus start to corrode the metal
bars of the portcullis as soon as they come into
contact with them and in moments all that is left is =
heap of red powder. Climbing the steps, you find
yourself inside what you conclude must be the keep of
the fortress, The sound of warriors preparing for battle
echoes down the dark passageways. Belgaroth must be
intending to mobilize his forces tonight! You must
move quickly if you are to stop him, Test your Luck
twice. If you are Lucky both times, turn to 100. If you
are Unlucky at all, turn to a7.

373-374

373
You sprint into the clump of trees and duck down in a

fern-covered hollow, hardly daring to breathe. Crouch-
ing among the bracken, you wait until you decide it is
safe to leave. You jump up with a cry as the dagger
sinks into your sword-arm (lose 2 sTAMINA points and
1 SKILL point), You are going to have to escape on
horseback, but before you can reach your steed you
will have to fight the Assassin’s Dagger again.

ASSASSIN’S DAGGER

After four Attack Rounds, or if you win two consecu-
tive Attack Rounds, you manage to reach Firemane
and, leaping on to his back, escape into the night. You
only stop again after you have put several hours of
hard riding between you and your ghostly adversary.
(Add 1 day to the Time Elapsed and write down the
word ‘Reggad' on your Adventure Sheet.) At dawn you
are on your way again; turn to 285

SKILL 19

374
Outside the chamel-house, you gulp in great lungfuls
of air to rid yourself of the clinging stench of death
and decay. Returning to Assart, you are given a hero’s
welcome. The villagers’ means are not great, but they
still give you a purse containing 3 Gald Pieces and
375

Provisions enough for 3 meals, while the local wise-
woman tends your wounds, Restore STAMINA points
equal to half your Initial score (rounding fractions up).
Then it is time for rest,

Not many hours have passed before you are woken
by cock-crow, and you prepare to set off again (add 1
day to the Time Elapsed). As you mount Firemane,
Ben, the forester, offers the villagers’ thanks once more
and adds that, if there is anything they can do to help,
you need only ask. If you wish to, you can recruit
some of the villagers to ight with you against Belga-
roth’s forces; you agree to meet them at the ruined
outpost of Harnwatch that night, so that they have
time to recover from the previous night’s struggle
(write the word ‘Ecrof’ down on your Adventure Shee!
if you have not done so already). Now, if you want to
follow the road south towards Caer Skaal, turn to 48.
However, if you prefer to set off in search of Aelfgar,
the legendary Elf-Spear, tum to 308.

375
With a tremendous splintering crash, a huge black

shape smashes through a window and hurtles straight
into you, showering you with broken glass and knock-
ing you to the ground. The midnight-black dog is as
large as a wolf and its cavernous mouth is just centime-
tres from your face. It snarls, and the smell of its fetid
breath makes you gag. With a roar, a ball of fire bursts
out of the monster’s mouth into your face. You scream
in pain as the flames burn you and, opening your eyes,
you find that the savage attack has damaged your

376

sight (lose 2 STAMINA points and 1 SKILL point).
Throwing the Hellhound from you, you get to your
feet as the monster springs at you again. There is no
time to use your powers against it. Once again you
are fighting for your life, while Torrin tries to secure
the window

HELLHOUND

As well as its savage bite and sharp claws, the demonic
creature has another attack: it can also shoot gouts of
flame from its mouth. After each Attack Round, roll
one dice. If you roll 1 or z, the monster's fiery breath
burns you for 1 additional point of staMINA damage.
If you kill the Hellhound, turn to 145.

SKILL 7 STAMINA 6

In order to harm this undead guardian spirit you will
have to be wielding a magically charged weapon. If
you are not fighting with such a weapon, the Haunt

377

tears through both flesh and armour with its skeleta!
claws, draining away your very life-force. If this is not
the case, once again you find yourself opposing a
servant of the powers of Evil. If you use the Holy
Strike Special Skill against the spirit, you may reduce
its STAMINA Score by 2 points and its SKILL score by 1
point.

HAUNT

The spectre’s insubstantial form finds your armour no
resistance so, unless it is magical, you must ignore any
bonuses you receive from wearing it. If you defeat the
Haunt, turn to 289,

SKILL 9 STAMINA &

377
You unfold the letter and begin to read:

Waster Genye,

News has reached us that the Vemplars have
sent a wartior to defeat our ally and we must
act to prevent this from happening. Ac
Assassin's Dagger has been dispatched but,
should this knight survive such an attack, we
rely on you to inform us of their progress and
to stop the accursed Yemplac, if you can.

/ he sect meet again at the allotted time but
the word of entry has been changed. it is now
‘Wlolfebane’.

Bryan, Areb-Clerie of the Darkthorn

378

Will you now drink some of the liquid (turn to 160) or
will you leave the mill and Wendeford (tum to 49)?

378

The Ballad of Sir Rhyaddan the Crusader spoke of
Aclfgar resting in the Shrine of the Templars, Of
course — you just hope that it is still there. The
whereabouts of the Shrine, however, has always been
2 closely guarded secret It is said in the legends of
your holy order that only the most worthy have any
chance of finding the place and, even then, they may
not be admitted. The balled said, ‘T wards the sunrise,
eastwards; ‘Through the forest old,’ surely the ancient
Forest of Lein; and ‘High upon a barren peak,’ in the
hills somewhere. Beyond the forest lies the eastern
edge of the Banarask Hills ., that must be where the
Shrine lies.

Leading Firemane away from the road, you set off into
the great untamed expanse of woodland that is older
than Ruddlestone itself. Leafless branches like skeletal
angers reach out across your path through the bracken
Suddenly you catch sight of a riderless hoarse between
the trees. Directing Firemane towards the steed, you
we that its fine saddle and harness are those of a
snight, and they bear the insignia of the Templars, It
does not take you long to find the rider — and you are
norritied when you see who it is. Slunped against a
tree is your old friend, Sir Connor of Achenbury. The
two of you served together at the Demonkeep Outpast
and, like: you, he too entered the order of the Elite
Knights of Telak. His tunic is torn and bloodstained

379-380

and several arrows protrude from his chest. Hearing
you approach, Connor manages to lift his head and
open his eyes. ‘Ah, a friendly face ... It has been a
long time. I only wish we were meeting again in
happier circumstances ... Ore Wolf-Riders . . . carrying
the banner of Caer Skaal._.’ Connor is failing fast.
If you have a Healing Draught or a tot of Aranan-
dus’s Restorative Potion that you would like to give
to your dying friend, turn to 267. If you haven’t, tum
to 72.

379
By mid-morning you reach the lonely village of Ennox

A number of farms and other buildings huddle together
round the village square, in the middle of which stands
a stone cross. You can see that parts of the surrounding
fields are blackened and blighted. As you ride into
Ennox, a group of villagers turns to look at you with
hostile expressions on their faces, ‘So, a Templar,’ one
of them sneers. ‘What ‘ave we done to deserve the
attentions of the likes of you? As if things weren't bad
enough with the blight. We don’t need your sort
snooping around ‘ere.” The man’s fellows mutter their
agreement. Something tells you that your presence
isn’t welcome here. You have no quarrel with these
people, so will you ride on through and leave them ir
peace (tum to 332), or will you stop and argue ir
defence of your order (turn to 150)?

380
Just at the edge of hearing you detect a soft, tinkling
voice calling to you. When you strain to listen, the

381

voice becomes more audible and a shimmering figure
begins to materialize next to the standing stone. Sens-
ing a strong aura of goodness, you watch as the
apparition of a beautiful woman, almost Elven in appear-
ance and swathed in flowers, speaks to you: ‘Before
dark magic imprisoned me within this stone, I was a
Fey Sorceress of some power. It is not my destiny to
be released by you, worthy knight, but for now the
paths of our fates cross and I may offer you aid. The
Bird of Light must be freed if you are to defeat the
Usurping Serpent, and the Champion of the Templars
must be overcome...’ Having spoken, the ghostly
woman fades from sight. Pondering her words, you
ride on once more, Turn to 263

381

Of course, where else would you look for the deceased
Necromancer but the graveyard! Many of the graves
are open, and the cemetery is dominated by a grim-
looking sepulchre that is decorated with carvings of
skeletons and has the image of a huge skull on its
granite doors. These doors stand open, revealing a
flight of stone steps that lead down into the gloom of
the mausoleum. Of course, you would not dream of
descending into the darkness without some means of
lighting your way, would you? If you do not own a
lantern, you leave the graveyard to search for one in
the village; turn to 31. In the mausoleum, you sense, is
where you will find the Necromancer, Do you want to
enter the sepulchre straight away (turn to 94} or
would you prefer to examine some of the opened
graves first (turn to 337)?

362

382

While the last of Carass’s militia make their final stand
on the southern wall, you set off alone to try fo
penetrate the besiegers’ lines; the town’s fate rests on
your achieving your goal. Hacking your way past
several Chaos Warriors, you see a clear way through
the breached walls to the Juggemaut. Then, with a
crash, part of a building a few metres away from you
collapses and its buming roof falls in, as a gigantic
figure smashes through a wall, sending bricks and
broken wooden beams flying into the street. As the
dust clears, you find yourself confronted by what at
first looks like a two-and-a-half-metre-tall walking suit
of armour. However, there are no gaps in the armour
and through the slit of the visor you can see a red
glow suggesting that barely controlled magical ener-
gies are powering the metal warrior. The lron Golem
is a deadly fighting machine, almost impervious to
weapons and hell-bent on your destruction. If you
have some Ironbane and wish to use it now, turn to
269; otherwise you must fight it,

IRON GOLEM SKILL 10 STAMINA 16

Any damage you inflict on the Golem will be reduced
by 1 point because of its sturdy construction. However,
on a successful hit, its metal fists will pound you for 3
STAMINA points of damage. If you ever roll a double
when calculating your Attack Strength, you break
your weapon against the Golem, such is the force of
your blow and the hardness of its body; you must
fight on with your Attack Strength reduced by 3
points. If the Golem wins two consecutive Attack

5383-335

Rounds, it manages to pick you up and throw you
against a wall; roll one dice and lose that many
STAMINA points. If you are victorious in this mighty
contest, roll one dice. On a roll of 2 or 2, turn to 347;
otherwise, turn to 50.

385
Write down the word ‘Eehsnab’ on your Adventure
Sheet. Now, if you have the word ‘Enorc’ already
written on your Adventure Sheet, turn to 12. If you
haven't and you came here from paragraph 17s, tum
to 316. If you came here from paragraph 163, turn to
202.

384
You hurry through an archway and beneath a raised
portcullis into the inner courtyard of Caer Skaal. This area
is in sharp contrast to the outer part of the castle. From
buildings around the bailey you can hear great numbers
of warriors preparing weapons, armour and steeds for
battle. Belgaroth must be intending to mobilize his forces
tonight! You will have to move quickly if you are to stop
him. Without further hesitation, you enter the keep which
looms in front of you like a grim sentinel against the
darkening sky. Test your Luck twice. Ifyou are Lucky both
times, turn to 190. If you are Unlucky at all, turn to 271.

385
Guiding Firemane through the undergrowth, you en-
counter a large fallen tree, blocking the path. By the
time you have taken a detour round it, you have lost
the path. You ride on through the ancient woodland

386-388

with a deep sense of unease. You are sure that you are
being watched and, when you tum your head to look
around, you spot a sudden movement in the dense
bracken. Eventually the trees part and you find yourself
at the edge of a small clearing. The floor of the clearing ts
covered with orange mushrooms. If you have the Arcane
Lore Special Skill, turn to 87. If you do not, Test your Luck,
If you are Lucky, turn to 87. If you are Unlucky, to go on
you will either have to ride round the edge of the
clearing (turn to 8) or straight across it (turn to 132).

386
You have time to use a crossbow once here, before
attacking the Chaos Beast Man

CHAOS BEAST MAN

if the battle lasts more than six Attack Rounds, turn to
39. If you defeat the guard in six Attack Rounds or
less, turn to 249.

SKILL 8 STAMINA &

387

You chase after the other mummers and catch sight of
the group manning down a narrow back-street. You
turn the comer just in time to see the mummers push
an empty wagon, that was standing in the road, in
your direction. The cart comes thundering down the
alleyway towards you. Test your Skill. If you are
successful, turn to 62. If you fail, turn to 30%.

388
Your attempts to break open the doors are entirely
futile and only serve to summon Caer Skaal’s guards.
389-390

Trapped in the antechamber, you finally succumb to
their onslaught. You were so close to the completion
of your quest, but at the last stage you have failed.

389
Werne explains that these iron gauntlets were made
by his tutor, the armourer Rastin. Every joint in the
gauntlets matches those of the human hand so that
they will not restrict movement in any way. Return
to 356
390

Opening the door, you enter the Juggernaut’s armoury.
Dark-bladed swords and pole-axes rest in racks lining
the walls, along with bows and black-feathered arrows.
You decide against taking any weapons that belong to
an army of Chaos, but something else does catch your
eye, A wicker basket in one comer is full of spiked iron
spheres with wicks protruding from their metal casings:
grenades. These vicious explosive devices have been
developed by alchemists and are known for their
destructive power — not to mention their unreliability.
If you ever want to use a grenade, you should light the
fuse with your tinderbox, or a nearby fire source, then
hurl it at your target. When you use a grenade, roll one
dice: on a rol! of 1, the grenade is a dud and will not go
off; a roll of 2-5 means that it hits its target, doing 1
dice worth of damage; however, on a roll of 6, the thing
explodes prematurely, causing you 1 dice worth of
damage! You can carry up to four grenades with you
Leaving the armoury, you descend to the floor below
and open the heavy iron-bound door there (turn to 61).

391-392

591

The sickly-sweet smell of decay grows stronger as you
make your way along the passage and the tunnel soon
opens into a small, bare chamber, littered with bones
of both human and animal origin. On the opposite
side of the room is a huge door of black granite, its
surface covered with skulls that have been carved in
high relief on the stone, This is all you have time to
take in before your attention is distracted by a rattling
sound. Some of the bones covering the floor are
starting to move jerkily towards one another. Suddenly
the bones leap into the air and join together, forming
the complete skeleton of a large dog. Snarling, the
charnel-house guard springs at you. If you have the
Holy Strike Special Skill, you may use this righteous
attack against the dog (reduce its sTAMINA by 2
points and its skitt by 1 point) If you have a Shield
Ring, turn to 320

SKELETAL DOG SKILL 7

Edged weapons, such as swords, will be deflected by
the skeleton’s bones and will do only 1 point of
damage to its STAMINA. Smashing and crushing weap-
ons are not affected in this way. If you destroy the
undead dog, turn to 42.

STAMINA ©

392
The volume is a bestiary; thumbing through its pages,
you come across a section about the rare mythological
beast called the Cockatrice, You read on with interest.
Also known as the ‘king of serpents’, the Cockatrice is
said to come from a hen’s egg hatched by a toad. It is

393

a strange combination of a large cockerel, a bat and a
snake, and is a fearless carnivore. A distant relative of
the Basilisk, the Cockatrice is renowned for its poison-
ous breath which paralyses anything it touches. How-
ever, the monster does have one major weakness: if it
should catch sight of its own reflection in a mirror the
creature will die. The text is accompanied by a wood-
cut of one of these monsters, Now return to 166.

393
Rounding the corner of a stone building, you come

upon a patrol scouting through the ruins for survivors.
The two Rat Men have large eyes and ears, and
beneath their leather armour you can see that they are
covered in short fur, while rat-like tails trail behind
them. Drawing their short swords they run at you.

SKILL STAMINA
First RAT MAN Ls 6
Second RAT MAN 6 5

If you win, turn to 326

394-395

394
When you are just within arm’s reach of the man,

several vines suddenly shoot out of the undergrowth,
just missing your ankles, and proceed to tie themselves
in knots. You grab the hem of the man’s robe and he
spins around to face you. The cleric prepares to defend
himself with a long, black thom.

CLERIC SKILL 6 STAMINA 6

If you win, tum to 46,

395
As you kneel at the altar, you hear a deep, rumbling

voice inside your head saying, ‘Truly you are a Knight
of Telak.’ You feel filled with new life and hope, ready
for whatever the remainder of your journey may
bring. You have received Telak’s Blessing Restore
your STAMINA, SKILL and Luck scores to their Inifial
levels and add i point to your HONOUR score. Having
been blessed, you leave the shrine. Turn to 23

<a

396-398

396

With the cold night air buffeting your face, you peer
into the night. Below you are the swiftly dwindling
turrets of the Fortress of the Skull and the barren
rocky peaks of the Banarask Hills. Then, ahead of you.
you see the Dread Lord on his hellish mount As you
draw closer, the Night-mare tums and gallops, shriek-
ing, through the sky towards you, You can see that
Belgaroth is preparing to cast another bolt. of dark
energy at you. You must act quickly, If you have the
Elf Spear, Aelfgar, turn to the paragraph with the same
number as the number of bands of runes on the spear's
shaft. If you do not have the legendary weapon, tum
to 318.

397
Although you ride south-eastwards for several kilo-

metres through the forest, you soon lose the trail ieft
by the Wolf-Riders (deduct « poimt from your
LUCK), Time is running out and your quest for the Elf-
Spear must come before any desire for vengeance
you may have. You resolve to avenge Connors
death on Belgaroth himself and so, filled with new
determination, you spur Firemane onwards. Turn to
278.

398
Reaching the doorway, you fling yourself through it.
Torrin slams the door behind you, quickly bolting and
barring it. Test your Luck. If you are Lucky, tum to 310
If you are Unlucky, turn to 375.

———E—i Cs iil

399-400

399
For consigning the villagers to their fate, lose 2

HONOUR points and 2 Luck points! Riding away from
the scene through the twilight, you find yourself
approaching the smouldering remains of a ransacked
village. A hastily erected wooden stockade stands in
the middle, and from your vantage point you can see
only one guard at its entrance. Do you want to tether
Firemane here and sneak into the Beast Men’s camp
for further investigation, now that night has fallen
(turn to 340), or do, you prefer to ride on, away from
here (turn to 296)?

400
The silver-tipped spear streaks through the air and
pierces the Dread Lord’s breastplate, sinking into his
black heart. Belgaroth lets out a blood-curdling scream
of horror and surprise as a silvery glow envelops
Aelfgar; then, with a terrible sucking sound, Belgaroth’s
body collapses in on itself. His death-scream is lost
beneath the sound of a mishing wind: a vortex is
forming in the sky at the point where the Dread Lord
died, drawing air into its centre and opening a doorway
to another world, With a shrill cry the demonic Night-
mare disappears into it. Let us leave now, the Celastrix
says in your head then, beating its powerful wings,
begins to drag you away from the centre of the
rapidly widening vortex. Beneath you, the towers and
battlements of the dark fortress are being torn apart
by the force of the vortex: great lumps of stone and
masonry are hurtling upwards from the castle into the
heart of the whirlwind. With a deafening sound, the

400

ground buckles and cracks and the entire fortress is
dragged into the air. While the Celastrix is flying
away from the spiralling vortex, you look back over
your shoulder and witness the final destruction of
Caer Skaal as it is drawn through the gateway between
the planes and you catch sight of the nightmarish
dimension into which it has been drawn: jagged black
mountains rising from plains covered entirely with
bones, volcanoes spouting columns of fire into a
blood-red sky and the pitiful screams of lost souls
ringing out across the Realms of the Damned. You
tum away in horror, and the vortex closes with a deep
resounding boom which echoes across the hills. Noth-
ing has been left either of Belgaroth’s Fortress or of
his evil hordes to show that they ever existed. The
spot where Caer Skaal stood has been cleansed of
every trace of Chaos. You suddenly become aware of
an insubstantial figure, floating in the sky in front of
you. The man has a long grey beard and on top of his
regal head he wears a crown, while his tunic and
kingly robes bear the holy emblem of the Knights of
Telak. His voice is powerful and resonates in your
mind:

‘When the earth in sickness lies

And the year, in twilight, dies,

The Usurping Serpent's iron hand
Shall crush the life from this fair land,

Ever will his vengeance bum

Till the Bird of Light’s return

And Lein Wood the fortress see —

The Dread Lord will then vanquished be.
400

‘Thanks to you, brave knight, the prophecy has been
fulfilled,’ says the ghost, ‘and, with my evil brother's
death, the source of the corruption in the kingdom is
gone. Ruddlestone and the king are safe once more
and all will soon be made whole again. You are a truly
noble and honourable warrior. My blessings go with
you.’ With that, your vision of King Chivalras IX
dissolves into the night. Riding on your winged mount
towards the Citadel, you know that, thanks to your
bravery, your homeland has been saved for a second
time from the tyranny of Belgaroth, the Dread Lord,
and his Knights of Doom.
