CONTENTS

Tre Most Reverep Tavatige
or Macs Hunnec
7

INTRODUCTION
9

ADVENTURE SHEET
18-i9

BACKCEOUND
Fiscarcad voWwme

ARSON

ae.

The Met Bove Bann of
MAGE TIONTING

be kid

Uh cae Any ce yor
i eater

act ote Kriya fuly polsqpedicalbeas
aia ae is book pesble

ean snide HR vein nt al

Dileating a Hone

bed eat ch och
ee cd 6 he we
Bing nd wih oe om ba
2 ere iarexipstel set ea ee et

Ditcting 9 Mage
Bian ett

(aoa ebay Saree alae CoP Ret

sil Lone a tt mae

Seed il hl Bese
ed Tem wi hy cers me ac tl ir

i} ened aa mes ee wil ae

aa ny mapa
ve in ad

Pacing a Mage
We lah bl een tte em an ei the
sila ae er serng eden Er me

its aepe mall dd nid esd: ayn oe
Ihe dina The ees nd the ye a bi nc
[ects
Fo TOtd falengt MO by = ge ta
Arle lle «yok malig bl
tall od real os ind
a Thine

rani lt Th dete a emer snl

Thooren peter ners ism atltheae aet
tayo Te peo een To dee py paler
Tey a chow teal ae ca, ow we

00 tel ps

INTRODUCTION

There are magehunters aplenty, men who have sworn
to md Ghee lands of the foul practitiancss of the evil
aris But you are The Magchumer. the besi al your
craft, Under the patronage of Margrave Mechtner,
scourge of evil, you have brought countless sorcerers
lo justice — and to dealh by Are? Others may swear
by their blessed relics and gimmicks, but you gol where
you are laday through talent alone,

Before beginning your most challenging quest to date.
you must delermine your strengths and weaknesses.
On pages 18/19 there is an Advenher Sheet on
which you may record the details of your adverture
Om il you will find boaes for recording your seine
STAMINA and LUCE BCOres.

Il is best eilher lo make photocopies of the Adueniure
Sheet or to record your scores Jn pencl], as it is unlikely
that you wil] succeed at the frst atlempl.

Skill, Starnina and Luck

Roll ane dice. Add 6 to the number rolled and enter
the Lolal in the sein. box an the Aduenturr Sher!.

Roll hwo dice. Add ra to the number rolled and mter
the total in the stamina bow.
Rol] one dice, add 6 and enter Fhe tots) in the cucx box.

These arc the Inifta’ scores Jor your three main at-
Iributes, For reasons that will be explained below, all
these scores wil] change during the adventure. You
mus! keep an accurate record of them and for this
reason you arc advised to write small in the boxes, or
lo keep an eraser handy. But never cub out your Initial
scores, Although you may be awarded addilional
SKILL, STAMINA and LUCE points, Eheir dolals may not
exceed their fnilial scores, except on some very rare
occasions when the text specifically tells you so.

You ski. score reflecls your experlise in combat,
your dexterity and your agilily. Your sTaMiNa score
tellects how healthy and physically fit you are. Your
LUCK Score indicates how Jucky you are. [n all these
cases, lhe higher your score, the betlert

BaHdles

During your adventure you wil] offen encounler
enemies which must be fought, An oplion fo flee may
be given, but if not — or if you choose to altack
the creature anyway — you musl resolve the halile
as described below.

First record your opponent’s sKILL and STAMINA
scores in lhe first empty Encounler Box on your
Adoenture Sheet. The scores for every poiential adver-
sary are given each lime you have an ercounler which
may end in combat, Tle sequence for combat Js then:

1o

. Roll two dice for your opponent. Add Its sxite

score, This Eolal Is the opponent's Altack Strength,

. Roll twe dice for yourself, Add the number rolled to

your current skitc score. This lolal is your Altack
Strength. °

. [f your Altack Strength is higher than thal of your

opponent, you have wounded ft: procecd to step 4
If your opponenl's Altack Strength is higher than
yours, it has wounded you: proceed to step 5. If
both Attack Strength totals are the same, you have
avoided each olher’s blows — stan the next Attack
Round from step 1, above.

. You have wounded the creature, so deduct 2 points

from ils sTAMINA score, (You may use your LUCK
here to do addilional damage = see below.) Now

proceed to step 6,

. The creature has wounded you se deduct 2 points

from your own stamina score, (Again you may
use LUCK at Lhis slage — see below.)

. Make the appropriate adjustments either to your

opponent’s or lo your OWN STAMINA score {and to
YOU LUCK score if you used LUCK = see below).

. Begin the next Attack Round by repeating sleps

1-6, This sequence continues until the sTAMINA
score of cither you or your adversary has been
reduced to zero (death).

Le

Il
Escaping

In some paragraphs you will be given lhe option of
escaping from 3 fight if things are going badly [or
you. However, if you do run away, your opponent
automatically gets in one [ree attack on you {deducl 2
STAMINA points) as you flee, {Note that you may use
LUCK lo minimize this wound in ihe norrnal way — see
below.) You may Escape only if this option is specifi-
cally given to you in the relevant paragraph.

Luck

Al various times during your adventure, eilher in
batile or when you find yourself in a situaHon in
which you could be eilher lucky or unlucky, you have
to call on your cucx to make the oulcome more
favourable, But bewarel Using vuck is a risky business,
and if you are cmlucky, the resulis could be
disastrous.

The procedure for using your Luck is as follows; roll
lwo dice, If (he number rolled is Jess than or equal lo
your current LUCK score, you have been Lucky and the
result will go in your favour. If the number rolled is

higher lhan your currenl tyck score, you have been
Unlucky and you wil] be penallzedL

This procedure is known as Tesling your Lek, Each
time you Tes! your Luck, you must sublracl 2 point
from your current Luck score, You will soon come to
realize that, the more you rely on your tuck, the
more risky this wil] become,

12

Lising Leck in Baltes

[nm certain paragraphs you will be told to Test your Luck
and wil! then discover lhe consequences of being
Lucky or Unlucky, However, you always have the
option of using your tuck in batlle, either lo inflict
more severe damage on an opponent you have just
wounded or to reduce the seriousness of a wound
your opponent has just inflicted on you,

iM you have just won an Atlack Round, you may Tes!
udir Lack as described above, IF you are Lucky, you
have jnilicled a severe wound on your opponent and
may deducl 2 extra pomts from the creature’s STAMINA
score. However, if you are Unlucky, the wound was a
mere scratch and you rust reslore z pain! to its
STAMINA (so that, tusteady of inflicting the usual 2
points of damage, you have now caused only 1),

14
If you have just los! an Allack Round and have heen
wounded, you may Ted your Luck lo try to lessen the
effect of the syound Jf you are Lucky, you have
managed Eo aveid the full impaci of the blow; restore
1 point of stamina (so lhal, instead of causing 2
points of damage on you. il has done only a} I you
are Unlucky, you have had to take a more serious
blow: deduct 1 exfra point from your Sana.

Remember: you must sublract 1 point from your LUCK
score every time you Tes! your Luck regardless of the
putcome.

Restoring Skill, Stamina and Luck

Skil

Your skit score wil] not change much during your
adventure. Cecasionally a paragraph may give you
instructions to increase or decrease your SKILL score.
Your SKILL score can never exceed its IntHal value
unless you are specifically inslrucled to lhe contrary, If
you éver have to fight a balfle with your bare hands
(for example, if you have Jost your sword), you must
lemporarily subtract 2 from your Attack Strength for
the duration of the combat.

Aq

Samira and Provisions
Your STAMINA score will change a Jot during your
adventure as you fight many foes and underlake ardu-
ous tasks. If your STAMINA score ever falls to zero,
you have been killed and musl slarl again.

You can restore losl sTAMINA by eating emergency
foad rations, known as Provisions, You start the game
with enough Provisions for five meals. You may resl
and caf at any lime, except when engaged in combat.
Ealing a meal restores 4 STAMINA points. When you
tat a meal, add 4 points to your STAMINA scare and
deducl 1 point from your Provisions, A separate Provi-
stons Remaining box is previdcd on the Adfventrre
Sheet for recording delails of Provisions

‘ P

ye —

Luck
Additions lo your LucK score may be awarded in the
adventure when you have been parlicularly lucky or
crealed your own Juck by some aclion, Details are

15
given where appropriate, in the paragraphs of the
book Remember that. as with ams and cramna,
your LVce score aasy newer exceed ib dete! value -
uniess you mrt specifically bold thal # can

You are fot ons of those magehanten who caries
around = veritable wegoniaad of weapors and devices
— bat all the mame there are some things that ace
memtial. Your clothes are made of undyed cath and
leather, as this slightly reduces the effectiveness of
vorcery used against you {contact with undyed cloth
also weakens mages). For weaponry, you choose 4

ol, with its ammunition: a box of powder and three

lets — one of them silver. For hand-to-hand combat,
your lorg, buskel-hilted broasword has serand you
wed i eratiy 0 dod

16

Mirrovs are uneful items in dealing with wizards you hare
02, eveech you keep in Hee marry poxderts of your lesther
ett. You also have 2 compas needle. Note down all
You often we s rope of hunsen heir to bind mages

You are not especially wralihy: roll ona dice and note
thal you possess this number of ulver pleted ln ihe
Money box of your Adventtere Shast.

Companion

In the course of the adventura you may scquire a
companian. {f you do, you may need to note dawn

PeTIOn's SRILO sTamine and LUCK scores ue the
box marked Companion an pour Adcveterr Shea, Alac.
have an Hie lower part of pour Equigenerd bor Usually
you wilt howe acces im ary cpepeend a coon
may be carrying — but @ you ae weparsted. you wil
hover itt

i?
VENTURE SHEET

——,

SKILL SKILL SKILL
Srritan! Ireitie! dnithnt
Shif= S\ili- Shilf=
MONBY: EQUIPMENT LIST:
NOTES: COMPANION'S
PROYEIONS REMAINING
COMPANION:
SKILL STALINA
Surttal tnrdrut
Shitle Slumena=

swwitcH [ }

ENCOUNTER BOXES

Akill= Still= Sial/=
Staminte Staminas Staite
Sui/- Saill= Shilt=
Steeeuirer= Stamina Staminre
Suil= Skill= Shiit=
Stirim= Slaming= Stamirare
Skilf= Skill Shil«
Stamina- Stamime= Stavaint=

BACKGROUND

@ttemph lo etcape justice. Your lungs are basting, bus

the earth track as Gest you can, praying
that in the gloomy rwillght you will nol be tripped by
a atray root. ‘Then, silhoualted in the gate of tha
cemelery, yOu new your enemy. Mencius, He lenns on
oma of the pillars for suppo

Panting hard, you cover the Lact filly metres to where
Menclus sprawl, He raises & conlempiuous face to
you ') curse you to tha cnd of elernity,” he anarle
‘And | will have my revenge.” You have heard many
puch threats before, and you're ali] alive, so you waste

hawe to bead it the rest of the way

When you arrive af the castle i Is nesely nud-day.
Wore lidings await you Mechinet, the old Margrave
who sponsored your cause and Jeni his considerable
power to the hunt for wizards, died in the night. Your
arrival is hardly noticed amid the funeral preparations,
and you cannot be sure that your urgent instructions

ST ee are seams date ok dingate

As @ boreiaman of the Margrave you reust attend hic

25

1
The funeral is held immediately. By  tradillon,
lhe heir of the deceased wears ted mouming
clothes, while everyone clse must wear undyed cloth.
This is no hardship for you, as you always dress
in undyed clolh and rough Icather, You take your
place in the funeral conége and slowly follow the
colfin on its journey to the castle chapel, The nites
: Swen | f last for several hours, and the company then retums
=EF 3 to the great hall where a [ast real will be ealen
lo honours the dead Margrave Afler the second
cours, young Reinhardt, clad in ceremonial scartel.
=i 7 \ 47] makes his excuses and leaves. You wish thal you.
ae ST SF ana es loo, coukl keave Uhis dismal feast. but courtesy
a , , lortrids it.
: Suddenly Ube castle stats fo shake There are
ote : | Kream. and you leap to your feet, swaying, as
a Ss the floor heaves beneath your feet A block of
: . matonry crashes down and nrowmers dive under the
ttout oak table for protection. If you are willing
‘> risk 3 breach of etiquette and head for the
dungeons, tum to @7. If you stay where you are, tum

10 334.

Wise ee

ITT +t)

—

a
You show your drinking companion the wound. and
| ne sucks in his breath. He ushers you out of the lavern
and along lhe street lo a small building. Inside. he
talks for a while lo a sharp-eyed fellow. If you have a
bullel wound, tun lo 298. If Reinhardt has the bullet
wound, lum to 381.

x5

3
Reinhardt screeches in protest as you are carried off,

but it's no use, That'll serve him sight lor never
helping you fight! Nole down ‘abandoned’ next to
the sword Companion on your Adventure Slieet. Tum
to 251.

&

The sparse, sun-bleached vegetation is a far cry from
the dark, wet forests of your homeland. After a bare
half-hour of walking, sweat is already trickling down
your face. Luckily, you can quench your thirst at the
nearby river. Some time in mid-morning, you see
smoke rising into the sky from up ahead. Advancing
cautiously, you spy a small village. The buildings seem
to be made of baked mud, and the inhabitants. ace
wearing strange clothes, but at east they are human,
and they seem peaceful. The two of you make your
way to the village. spreading your arms and begging
for food and assistance, To your constemation, the
villagers just stare, bewildered, then start jabbering in
4 language you have never heard before. If you persist,
trying to get the people to understand you, turn to
206. if you retrace your steps, turn to 569,

5
A shalt of blinding light runs along your sword blade.
There's a hiss from the Book of Crafl, and a stinging
sensation. Lose 1 point from your STAMINA. IF you
have reduced the Scintillating Globe to zero STAMINA
points, tum to 245; otherwise, return to 286 and
continue the fight.

6-7

6

You slart asking if anyone has seen somcone who
fooks similar 1a you, since Reinhardt looks far more
like you than do any of these swarihy people. You
quickly slnke lucky. An ald man explains that the
person you are [ollowing passed lhrough lhe town
and he is fairly sure thai the stranger was on his say
lo the capital. Kallamehr. The old man remarks that
the man spoke Kal better than you do, which strikes
you as a little add — byl, all the same. il’s goad to pick
up the irail, The man is happy to icll you some more
About Kallamehr. Tum to 348.

7
You swing your broadsword, haping at least fo knack
him down, even if his sorcerous power will prevent
you from wounding him. To your surprise, your blade

catches him unawares, slicing into his ches! al he third
B—10

rib and culfing as deeply as his heart, His chant
gurgles to a slop, and he topples. If you have a Shauca
Scar, turn to 245. Othenvise. turn lo 584.

8

It's almost impossible to gain any uscful information
without being able to speak the language of these
people, but you do attract considerable attention with
your attempts. Finally you wander the streets deso-
lately, looking for something that may help you, It's no
use, Note down the word ‘fame’ on your Adventure
Shovt (E it is not there already, then mark a q@oss and
tum lo a4

>
You collect some dry wood and build a pyre; there is
plenty of tinder, and the job is easy. Mencius’s body is
soon consumed by a roating blaze. As you walch the
flames, you plan your nexl move. Turn fo 336.

10

Crab meal is tasty and nutritious; if you want lo eat
some of the dead crab, furn Lo 459. Olhecwise, decide
whether lo continue along the beach to the left (fom
fo 64) or travel in the opposite direclion {turn Lo aaa}.

It—13

11

Searching trough the nest, you amass a yerilable
lreasure hoard: @7 Gold Pieces, seven pieces of jewel-
lery and a diamond as large a3 one of your bullets
(nole down your gains on your Adventure Sheet), Now
you must face the Lricky task of des¢ecnding from the
lofty peak. Test your Luck If you are Lucky, turn fo 94.
if you are Unlucky, lurn to a9.

12
Twice you have had to suck snake's venom from your
body, and once you had to do the same with poison
from some demonic insect summoned by (he mage
Orayan fwhom you later had the pleasure of seeing
bumed at fhe stake), You know the method, it’s just a
matter of keeping your wits aboul you and doing il
correctly, Roll twe dice. [f the result is Jess than your
SKILL turn to 192. If the resull is equal lo or greater
than your SKILL tum bo 242.

Miecatiiie
PISA

WaT pile ra
. —.

t Jie
= a _ 4 ae a ; +
4 ree eee. -
e. a
4 7, ‘i = *
its : ey Sf.
- “v ' ‘
z wis > A. Lo -
= . J . 5 “
-- “ ~ ss _ -
; Pr A > 5
aoe ~—— ie s
So -— wo
ee SS : 2 le
SV = Nv © = = 5S
= r + oe ~o - ~ ¢
= = Shh at iy .

hy

Ws;

iF,
ff

LE

-
'

"
8,

™
>)

(Ss
S
a5

a, Ae
oy

a
“
‘sh

13-16

15

To your surprise, lhe door al fhe top of the sicps
opens, and Reinhardt appears and hurries lowards you.
He is delighted to see you and starts telling you how
kind and gencrous his hosts haye been, how they
rescued him from the dangers of the wilderness and
showered him with giffs. Ushering you into the areal
hall of the tower, he presses several presents on you: a
smarl black beli, a jewelled shortssvord and an embroi-

dered claak. If you accept the gifts, tun fo 77. If you
refuse, turn to a1}.

14.

As you feel your way forward. you slep on a sectlon
of floor which slowly sinks down a few centimelres.
There is a dick and the sound of rock moving against
rock ,,, and a huge slab of stone cashes down on to
you, Your hopes of success are squashed for ever.

15

Grabbing Reinhardt by the scruff of his neck. you leap
backwards inlo the fast-flowing river, The crealure
snarls but dare not follow you, weighed down as it is
with annour. You are carried along for several hundred
metres = you notice the place where you arrived pass
by — before you can drag yourselves oy! of the river.
You collapse on the bank. lelling the hod sun dry your
dothes, before proceeding, Tur Lo 245.

26
With a great deal of sign language and the few
phrases al your disposal, you manage lo convey that
quite quickly — a white-bearded cid man nods emphati-
cally. You learn that the man you seck is outside
town, and the white-beard offers to guide you there,
On the jourmey you try to make conversation with the
old man, but you constantly come up against the
barrier of language. After walking into the hills for a
couple of hours, you arrive at a familiar sheltered valley,
with a cave nas nipseginci beget ban
and to you you can't underst
a ee ernst wae
there is no reply, the old man bids you wait and
into the cave. He returns soon afterwards,

trembling. Shooting across gumces al he
gestures urgently for you to follow hm if you go
with har. tum to 196. W you decele to strike aud on
your ower. han to 457

eys,

You hurry back to the cell and free Reinhardt. Now
will you go back up the tunnel (turn to a4o) oF
continue along it (rum to 279)?

38
Something catches your eye — a pile of clothes hy tings
dose to the bank of ihe river. When you pick Damn bp

(abric as if it bas been tom snuander, SHH il can
repaired and il’s soxely preferable to wha you
cunenily dressed in Note doen ‘undyed dothes’ an
your Equipment List arc tam to 110.

19

You ram the bullet home. take alm and shoot. Your
alm |s true, bul Mencius's magic is slronger, The bullal
rlcochets off his body, as iJ it had struck the finest
stewl, and embeds ilself in the wall, Menclus doesn't
even Anch. Turn to gx

10
cul consaeus thought, In the tine it Lakes to draw
two breaths yoo mrt yor wrod blade with the
wuard's blaod then ving 7) at he neck He avid:
abdily to eathly wcapors & destroyed by the touch
ot he bhoad and you Geave he head fren his body,
down at your seracd you notice that il o
rather dvfferend, Your practical steel broadsveord seems
to have been transformed into a fancy rapier with a
bepawelled hilt. You feel strangely different and you
natice for the first licre that your clothes are now red,
You ratdeve your rope of human hair fram Menclus's
corpae. Your immediate problem concerns what to do
wilh Wlencius’s body. After you deal with that, you
can begin to search for the young Margrave and find »
way back hame. Will you:

Bury the body? Turn io 138
Baum ther busty? Tum to +45
Throw Ihe body in the rivet below? = Turn Io 200
at

21

ie
or

s

oo

4"

This diagcam shows the Slying carpet, Khasim is sitting
in the posilion marked with his name, You are sllling
at the rear of the carpet, with Reinhardt in front of
you, Conduct the fight between the lwo of you as
nocmal, byl with the following additional rules: who-
ever foses an Allack Round will be forced back. Roll

one dice and consull Lhe following chart to see in which
direction they are pushed back,

|
at ,
= ==, = 2-5 Loser-44@ Winner Kz
vale ee : : 3 é § ”

is

off. If either of you enters the square containing
Khasim, the whole carpet will shake. You must then
roll two dice for you and two dice for Reinhardt; in
each case, the result must be less than or equal to the
sxtut score of that character for him to be safe. If the
result is greater than your or Reinhardt's seit, then
you (or Reinhardt) have fallen off the carpet. Keep
track of where you and Reinhardt are on the carpet by
using counters or pencil marks. In each Attack Round,
you do not have to use all your ser in the attack
You can choose (before you roll the dice) how much
sie you will use, Reinhard! wall always aHack you
with all his SKILL Luck can be used zs usual to change
the result. If you defeat Remhardt without anyone
falling off the carpel, bum lo 209. If Reinhardt falls
off. turn lo 7a. If you fall for both of you Sull}, lum
iv 60.

az

Al-Bakbuk waves away your money, but he seems
pleased at the offer, He gives you a parting gift of o
glass to remember him by {note down ‘Al-Bakbuk's
glass’ on your Adventure Sheet} and advises you, if
you are ever in the city Kallamehr, to seek oul
will you

a3}-35

Go shopping? Tun to 248
Try ta pick up the trail? Turn lo 3az
Head for the city of Kallamehy? Turn to 548

4}
The remaming courtiers dose in on you. You can't
hope to fight ther all, so your only chance is lo Hee.
Test your Fuck. If you are Lucky, hum to aga. If you are

Untucky, turn to 167.

14

The rope of human hair is too precious for you Io
abandon it here. so you tie the wizard’s hands with one
end, then cul off the remainder, Although he will
probably be able to get free, you should have enough
lime bo escape. Leaving the cave, you face a choice. If
you wish to go south-wesl, the direction wndicated by
the cue. fun ta 228. If you would rather travel in a
different direction, tum to 427.

as

After a liring climb, you gel a view slreiching for
several kilometres in all directions. To the north, you
¢an make oul nothing but increasingly highar moun-
tains. To fle south, Ln the distance, you can see the
Lint glimmer of the sea, Following the direction of
tre road, you can make out a cty, apparently larger
than the town from where you have just been
expelled. If you choose to walk dong the road
tum to 2&. [6 mstead, you make for ihe coast, tum
to 393.
30~}3

His magical blast will hit you every round even if
your Attack Strength is greater. In the first round you
must lose 1 point from your stamina; then, as the
power of the magic amulet is overcome, in every
subsequent round you must lose 2 points of sTAMINA.
If you reduce Mencius to 2 or fewer points of
sTAMINa, tum to 124 i! you have the ward ‘reflec’ on
your Adventure Sheet ar lo x74 if you don’t,

39

The thing fics slow!y, so you have lime to cock your
pistol, take careful aim and fire {cross 1 bullet off your
Adveninre Sheet}. The majeslic creature crashes to earth,
You hurry over fo where i1 lies and confirm that if is
no longer breathing. If you return to the nuns and
search for the monster's Jair, lurn to 514. [{ you make
your way lo Lhe sea, lum lo 264

3n

You mention fhe name of Al-Nashshar lo a few
passers-by, bul they jusl shrug and walk atay. Frus-
lcated by your failure Lo find him, you follow the main
thoroughfare through the city until you come to a
large square, overlooked by an imposing tower which
is perched on the cliff overlooking the sea. In the
square, the city’s principal market is in full swing. If
you have lhe word ‘trail’ on your Adventure Sheel, turn
lo 149. Olhenvise, tum lo a67,

ro
Composing yourself once more, you joss the stone
into the circle, Jl slrikes the exact centre, Lhen bounces

ooo

3-H

in an unexpecled direction. A slrong reading! Tracing
a lIne from the centre, Fhrough fhe slane, you work
out the direction you will have to travel by making
Jor a distinchve duster of cocks high up on the
mountainside. Despile the punishing glare of the sun,
Ihe iwo of you make good time, discovering a moun-
lain palh which leads in roughly the right direction.
Tur to 52.

33

You gingerly open the lox. It's emply. ‘[ want my
property back,’ says Mencius. ‘Bring it to the Rangor
Tower before nightfall and ] will make your death
mercifully short’ So saying, he slrides off. [t docusn’t
seem like much of an offer. If you svanl to go straight
70 Ihe Ranger Tower now, tum fo 312. Oihenvise,
note down the number ‘312° on your Advensure Sheet.
Now you know where Mencius is; you are viven lhe
Option to geo lo the place where Mencius is. you may
tum to 3142. Now him do agi

34

ror an instanl the globe flares up brightly, almost
blinding you. Then you are surrounded by ulder black-
ness. All (celing disappears, first from your limbs, then
trom your body. [s this death? A memory is nagging
al you, buf you cannot place it ._. unti) lighi bursts
upon your eyes — lorchlighl. ‘You are in a cell. A crack
siunders lhe floer. Somchow you have redumed to the
Margrave's castle. However. you have failed in your
Mission. You must live with that failure for the rest of
Vour days,
34-39

slightly, peinling along the mountainside fowards a
saddle, If you [ollaw the direction in which the Hames
pointed, tum to azg. [Ff you climb the mountain lo gel
a better view, lurn lo 395.

33
The crealure Aghts both with ils daws and with its
vicious bile, As il fights, il continues to gruni at you
in an eerie, half-human voice.

GOLDEN LION-LORD — sxnig

If you ceduce the Lion-lord to 3 or fewer points of
STAMINA, Him lo 159.

STAMINA Ig

39
‘My slory is a warming te mind one’s own business

ated irust in Hazah. Those who meddle in the affairs of
the powerful will suffer a tercible fate. Know, then,
thal in the Hme of the former nuler of Kallamehr, the
Caliph Carolina, the country was beset by a terrible
disasler. A wicked sorcerer from another world, Bythos
by name, conspired with Sige the Silent, on the Grand
Council. lo conquer the whole land and overthrow
Hazah‘s sacred ruler. V¥hile [he army guarded the
northern borders agains! ihe \hrea! of invasion fram
Bei-Han, Bythos's army of country folk, whose souls
be held in thrall, swept towards the cily fram fhe east.
Who could halt their advance? Brave Ramedes, hero of
Kallamehr, was the only possible sayiour, bul he was
away on one of his many voyages of adventure. Jusl
when all hope seemed to have fled, however, he
cefurned and ...” Al-Fakik’s head falls fomvard on lo

ao-41

his chest. Moments later a rasping snore emerges. You
prod him awake, and he leaps up with a start. ‘Be off
wilh you rascal!” he shouls. Think you can steal my
maney, eh?’ He snatches up a knife and brandishes it
in front of your face. If you make a hasty exit, tum to
205 if you have the werd ‘bail’ on your Adveure
Sheet; olherwise, taark a cross on it and lum to 24x
Your only other option is fo fight him.

AL-FAKIK SKILLS

[{ you win, lun to 586,

STAMINA 5

40

The guards look you up and down with undisguised
contempt. and for a momen! you think they are going
lo challenge you, but there is no need to worry — they
geshue for you to pass through the gates. Soon you
are among bustling streels, full of strange, dark people.
You nolice that most are wearing clothes of silk —
which would strain even the Margrave’s purse. Their
challer is incomprehensible: if you are 1a get anywhere,
you wil] have to find a means of cormmaunicating wilh
them, If you start toaking for Mencius immediately,
turn lo ag$. Hf you spend a lillle time getting setiled
in, fFurn lo 293.

41
You hurry back lo the room in which you talked with
the thief, You burst into the room, bul he has already
left with his spoils. 1f you hide, waiting for him 10 came
back, tum to 3q0. IF you search the room and lake somme-
thing of equal value lo what you Jost, tum to 218-

——_—_=-

42-45

42
You are not equipped for such a titanic magical baltle
Mencus seems more potent than ever, hurling spell
after spell at his opponent. ‘You sidle around behind
him to attack, but he notices you oul of [he comer af
his eye, Almost casually, he flings a boll of fire at your
head, consigning you to oblivion

43
Green smoke seeps from (he ground and fills the
room. Coughing and splullenng, you abandon the
spell and fling wide the door ... just as a squad of
guards arrives, The sérweant has you seized by his
men. You are dragged before the Chamberlain. who
seems ta have emered as lhe new ruler of ihe

domain. Unfortunately. you have never gof on particu-
larly well with this fellow.

‘We caught him red-handed performing ihe Arls of
the Evil One,” announces the sergeant who arrested
you, ‘and this was found in his possession,’ he adds,
passing Menclis’s Book of Craft to the Chamberlain.

He flips a couple of pages with dislaste. ‘Do you have
anything to say before sentence is passed? he caquires,
arching his eyebrows. You protest that you were
attempting lo pursue (he mage who kidnapped Lord
Reinhardt, but you tall off as il seems obvious Ihe
Chamberlin is deaf lo your words. ‘[f is well known
that those exposed to the practice of sorcery are oflen
drawn by its allure. Despile your past meritorious
conduct, there can be no exceptions. You will be
executed at dawn,

44-45

44

You finish off the Spider Mage with a thrust to the
heart, Exhilaralion Hoods you: anolher sorcerer has
fallen to the greatest foe of evil! Quickly searching
Fhrough his lair, you are surprised to find a silver
representation of the Holy Symbol. When you pick il
up, you find a prayer writen on the back fr your
language! Sadly, mages show no fear of a Holy Symbol.
but il may be of use nevertheless. Note Jt down on
your Advertture Sheef, then mack a cross and tum
to 241,

45
The Skeletons dose in, blades whirling. From the
chamber above comes a mocking iaugh; il is Mencius,
into whose trap you have fallen. But Kurt, snarling
Ierociously, leaps at the Skeletons massed in Jront of
lhe stairs. They fall back, cowed by your loyal heund's
fierceness, If you can only fight your way Hurough to
the slairs ...

SKILL STAMINA
First SKELETON c 5
second SKELETON é 5

While you are fighling these lwo Skelelons one at a
time, the others are pressing in Kurt falls, finally cut
fo pieces by the bronze blades. If you have a compan-
ion with you, he, too, falls {mote dawn the word ‘lost’
on your Adpertture Sheed}. [F you defeat [he Skelelons in
® Attack Rounds or less, tum to 392. [f you do net,
tum lo 270,

TT eee es

like a comered wolf, knowing that this is your last
stand. You toke three more of the subterranean aub-
humans before Analy succumbing to the addy, It le a
glorious lost battle, but Mencius has escaped your

grasp,

27
Vour sense of direction is quite good, so you ret off
straight towards the aly, rezsoning thas, as you gel

broad highway — and some of the inhabitants of this
strange Their loose. colourful clothing is as
strange as the guttural noises which pass for their
language. However, the five you meet — apparently
merchants by trade — seem to take a liking to you and
offer you food, which you devour eagerly, You spend
the night in their camp, a little suspicious; next morn-
ing. however, you awaken, unharmed, and your cheer-
ful hosts once again offer you food and drink, By
gestures, you make it clear that you are making for the
city, So are they, it turns out. Over the next couple of

days’ travel, you pick up a few names and phrases in

Thu is no use, says Reimhardt. ‘Look where your
precious magehunting roethods have got us — precisely
nowherel He then sets off, walking sway. For a
moment you consider abandoning him here and retum-
ing to the town, but good sense prevalls. You hurry
aller him as quickly as you can In lhe slfling heat. The
lwe af you continue umbl nightfall having seen no
ugn of civilization Check your Adventure Sheet. If you
have the word ‘handage’ written down, han to 53 H
you do nol, turn to 84 if the Switdy bon is ticked
of to 3.31 wil mnt

ag
Mencius can sill protect himself, but he is vulnerable
tO pour preapur
MENCIUS SmULL

Fight Mencius as normal. However, tre is not using a
tword; instead, he will attack you with magk. If your
Aftlack Strength is greater than hls, [t meane you have
managed fo strike him and may Inflict damage as
normal. If your Altack Strength lo less than or equal tc
hls, IL means that you were unable to find an opening.

STAMINA 6
355-37

a3

First you musl acquire a dog. In lhe marketplace in the
middle of town you find 3 bustling maze of stalls, and
a short search reveals an animal Lrainer wilh a suitable
hound for sale. Despile your shortcomings when It
comes lo language, it's qulle easy io conwaunicate |hal
you want the dog, The merchant in charge of lhe stall
indicates that he requires 5 Gold Pieces for the animal
Five Gold Pieces! I's a fortune, more than a hundred
limes the value of lhe hound. If you have the money
and wanl to buy the dog, turn te 34%. [f you can’t or
won't pay, bum to 184.

356

Glad of your resolution to keep your pislo] primed.
you drop the silver bullet down the barrel, ram il
home, aim and shoot, The shot hits him full in the
chest. He staggers and slares down at the wound.
Then, with a banshee howl, he lenses his whole body.
The bullel shools out of the wound back at you
hitting you Jn the upper arm (lose 3 points from your
Stamina). Me seems slightly dazed by his effort, but
you have no way of knowing how soon he will
recover, You realize that this is in fact Mencius, some-
how transferred into another body. Jf you try to finish
him off now, burn lo 249, IF you take the chance fo
flee, turn to 376.

37
Colleding what loose waed and linder you can find,
you build a fire out in the open Once it is lit, you
walch the flames carefully. They appear to flicker
a

16-48

46

Smoke suddenty begins to pour from your ruby ring,
codleselng inia the shape of a huge and frightful, man-
like being. Before you can react, the crealure picks you
up and fies you over to the ship, dropping you in a
heap in front of the brightly dad figure. You still
cannot see his face, just a pair of sharp eyes regarding
you with malicious humour, He says a few words to
you Jn a language you don’t recognize, then dicks his
fingers, The huge creature from the ring disappears.
Tum lo z00.

You soon discover thal the current ner of Kallamehr
is Asiah Albudur. Her palace lies in the middle of the
clty, near an imposing stalue of a woman carrying 4
sword in each hand. [fF you apply for an audience with
Asiah Albudur, lo wam her about lhe menace of
Mencius, mark a cross on your Adponlure Sct, then
lura to xo if you have the word ‘balh' on your
Adventure Sheet, or to 262 if you haven't If you
simply wish to make enquiries, tum lo 294 if you have
the word ‘early’ writlen down or lo 496 LF you
haven't.

48
‘By the way,’ says your unusual hosl, ‘tay name
is Khasim the Unworthy. Anything thal is within
my power to help you in your mission, | will do. If
you have the shackles key, tum Io 1fo. If you
have a Shauca Sear. tum to 367. Otherwise, tun
lo 396.
49
The tunnel continues past a row of doors with barred

openings: a face is pressed against lhe bars of the first,
Edging <loser, you recognize Reinhardt! The look of
blank desperation on his face makes your scalp prickle,
Turn to 109.

‘Mencius!’ you exclaim,

Oh, so you don’t know about thal, says your unlikely
benefactor. He clicks his fingers again, and the huge

52

man-like creature appears again, “Genie, a mirort he
commands, In an instant, a mirror appears Jn [ront of
your face. You find yourself slaring at Reinhardl's
Tellection. ‘A side-elfect of entering lhis bubble of exist-
ence," the comically dressed character continues. “Your
bodles were swilched. Menclus Js now in your body,
in Kallamehr. By the way, [ll have my ring back if il's
all the same to you.’ He clicks his fingers again and
the cing floats oul of your pocket and into his hands
(cross the ruby ring olf your Adventure Sheet), Now
turn to 369,

54
You urge Kurt to sniff around and pick up a trail.
Within minutes he has found a scenl and is tugging at
the leash. He leads you along a side street to a [light
of slairs by the side of a tumble-down building; they
[cad down into some kind of cellar, Cautiously, you
ou

follow Kuri down info a dak chamber, family @-
lumunaed by chinks of Eight from holes mn the coding
You axlh ene ware you of immmeni danger and
you look up. Flattened sgaimst the coding nn a erity,
bald man wilh sunken ¢cyct Kurt mnaris, ard the man
dropn fram the ceiling on la you, His movements
remind you of » spider bul. as you fight, you quickly
discover Ihal he bh wulnerable ta your vreaspan,

SPIDER MAGE ariue 7

Kagt will also alleck each round, causing « point of

damage to ihe Spider riage. If you reduce him to 6

point of stamina te begs for mercy, if you spare
hum cum te 33@ otherwise turn fo 44

STAMINA 10

$3

The path finally pansea through a sheHered valley, its
cool ait a wekome relief from the blistering aun. Al
the far etd a plot of amoke emerges from a hole in
the cock Gelow it. a dark opening supgests 4 cave.
You approach the crc mouth ranly, peering mio th
why blckness You can? be mxe but 2 faint rourd
seers to be coming from the ave, possibly a human
voice, Abeuptly # stops. You move into the opening
trying to determine whether # was mally 2 faint
light appears, easily recognizable as a torch, Preparing
yoursell for action, you wait expectantly. The torch-
bearer tums out to be an old man, dark of skin, and
with a cloth wrapped round his head. He jabbers at
you, then stands, puzzled, when you respond by
aking him who he is. After a while he holds up his
hand for you to wait, and trots hack into the darkness,
returning a few minutes later with a book. Setting the
torch into a wall-sconce, he ips over the pages of the
book. When he finds the place he needs, he starts to
mutter and gestures with his free hand. He is a sorcerer.
costing sonve kind of spell! If you altack immediately.
turn to 8x. if you prefer to wait to see what happens.
turn to $24
53-4

53

You setHe down for the night. Reinhardl, no doubt
exhausted by the day's walk, staris snoring immedi-
ately. You lie down, but somehow sleep evades yau.
You cannot help bul scan the starry sky, searching In
vain for a familiar constellation. You slip into a half-
sleep, in which you walch (hrough half-dased cyes as
four hooded, cloaked figures steal surrepliliously fo-
wards you. Il is only when they are bending over
Reinhardt’s sleeping form, and you catch the glint of a
weapon, Ihat you realize they are not part of a dream.
You leap up, grabbing your sword, and surprise one of
Ehem with a Uhrust that pierces his chest. Then you
tum your atlention to lhe others. Fight them in bum.

SHROUDED SKULKER SKILL 3 STAMINA 6

If you are still fighting the Skulker after four Atlack
Rounds, make sure you have made a note of his
current smite and stAMINA, Lhcn bum to 307. If you
defeat the Skulker in four rounds or less, fight the oext

iwo opponents, one at a hme.

SKILL STAMINA
Second SKULKER 7 6
Third SKULKER 8 6

If you defeat both the Skulkers, turn to 260,

5d
‘There was no lime for Jaddar to load another magic
arrow before AJ-Azrad. Jn the form of a snake, was
upon him. The ballle was mighty indeed . . .”

§5—56

Al-Maddar has told his tale so vividly and with auch
expressive gestures lhat you feel you are living the
slory. Now he slaris to wreslle you, calling, “Who will
win, the snake or lhe man?’

AL-AZRAD THESNAKE = smite 6

Fight as normal; however, you cannol die in this fight,
If you defeal the snake, recover 2 poinis of STAMINA
for every three Jost, and turn lo agg, [f you lose, bum
10 I5L-

STAMINA 6

55

Yow drinking companion is eager Jo teach you his
language You learn that his name is Al-Bakbuk, and he
displays 3 keen interes! in conversing. When the lime
comes to leave Lhe fever Al-Bakbuk offers you the
hospitality of his home. .ver the next few days you
slorly acquire a lorited vowabulary and the ability ta
string a few words Logether (note down ‘basic kal’ on
your Auftenture Sheet), Al-Bakbuk is quile lavish with
his generosily, bul you know thal you will have to bid
him farewell sooner or later. lf you leave hirn without
offering a gill, turn to 415. Otherwise, you cun offer
him money (turn to 22), or. if you have it, a piers af
jewellery (burn to 37a) or a cuby cing (tum to £61),

76

3

The two of you slep on te the carpet and sil down,
You [ee] a little foolish sitling there, until the carpet
floals up into the air! [¢ Aoats gently for a moment.
then Khaskn says, To Kallamehrl and you shool off
with the speed of a diving falcon, Turn lo 94.

7-38

57
Note down the word ‘bail’ on your Adveriure Sheet.
How will you find such a capricious youth as Rein-
hardl? (€ you have ‘basic kal’ or ’kal’, you may search
for a storyteller {tun lo 325). Otherwise, Lurn to 205.

After a while you lose sight of the smoke, but you da
happen upon a mountain path which seems to be
going in the right direction Following it into a shady
valley, you caleh sight of the smoke plume once again,
(t is issuing from a hole in the rock wall, at the base of
which is 4 cave mouth, From the cave steps a slrange
inan, clad in Jaose, crimson robes of some fine material,

Fi
3
g
i
i
:

peers at you in bewilderment. Then he beckons you
to follow him and into the cave. By the
ou reach the cave mouth, he has been swallowed
up in the inky blackness. After a minute or so, however,
he returns, carrying a book in one hand and a

other,

your brandishing
black staff, he faces you The tent-dwellers release you.
Staring at the magician this close, you realize thit he |s
not Mencius. Nevertheless you must fight him.

SABA SEtLLO STAMINA 10

lf you defeat him. the tent-dweller: allow you to ga
on your why — apparenily thee code of honour 4
petiaied Tum to a¢7

bo-t1

+o
You plummet towards the distant earth, your body

twisting as you fall and pressure building to agony in
your chest and ears. The ground races towards you
and... Turn to ang.

T can help you in several ways” ays Khim, Fint |
can give you some protection from his magic.’ He
hands you an amulet with a chain to go round your
neck (note down the Magic Amulet on your Adoenture
Sheet). ‘1 don't that it'll protect you com-
pletely, but # should help against a direct attack,
Secondly, 1 can advise you to be careful. Because our
world is so rich in magic, Mencius’s power is

daily. He will no doubt already have gained some
knowledge of Kallamehr. Finally,’ he says, unturling 9
short, luridly patterned carpet, ‘| can get you to .
llamebr quickly and secretly ... We fly in thirty
ininutes! Tur to 353 if you have any of the following
noted down on your Adventure Sheet: turban. Visler’s
Robe, Al-Bakbuk’s Glass, or Kurt. If you have nane of
them, turn to 188.

es

#31-64

6a
Falling ... ... falling — again you experience
the nausea of swap, Now it is you whose face is

pressed against the bars of a tiny cell. ‘Get me out of
here” you hiss urgently at Reinhardt.

‘No chance the cur replies. Td have to fight the
guards! I'm getting out of here.’ He hurries off along
the tunnel to the right. You never see him again. You
discover your own fate quite soon: the creatures who
have captured you use you as a slave for the few years
of your miserable life that remain Your quest ends far
below the surface, as a slave of the Dark Elves

2)
H you were stung by the scorpian tum te 161 Mf you
managed to defeal @ without bean stung. ban 10 age

a4

an increasing quantity of shingle. You round a head-
land, looking out across a wide bay. The beach contin:
ves a short distance. ending at steep cliffs. A lithe way
out to sea, a small boat is sailing in towards the coast
beyond the cliffs. Uf you burn back the way you came,
hum to 289. if you press an and try to wale (he cliifs.
tum lo ong

6r-S5

$5
A smug look crosses the beslial features of the thing
on you attack only to be replaced by surprise and
oulrage ag you airike a2 good blow. Then you are
embroiled in a desperate battie.

DEMON OF THE RING) sentia STAMINA 16

If you defeal the Demon, note dewen the vrond ‘Genk
and harm io 16¢.

Rarotuing the sliver bullel home, you am crefully and
shoot, The bullet hire hfencas: full in the forehead He
ware back al you the gleemme bull embedded in
bie tread bite o therd eye. bin feators: contort with rager
— af in Mo agany? - ard tee balled shools back at of
Iie head. leaving a hole, then the edges of the hole
cekrul themaaives. Merraus stands quite stil He eyes
we paring madly si you but you avid hn gare.
Enough | had thought to make your death interesting.
but now | will deny you even thai privilege!’ says
Menchs. He raises his hands above his head and
shrieks [lke » wolf, Then he dashes them down. releas-
ing » Azzlng blast of magical power at you. If you
have a Magic Amulel, turn to 28g. [Ff you haven't, turn

eS ee
bree

o7

to 266, Erase the following items from your Adventure
Suet: pistol, 3 bullets, box of powder, broadsword.
undyed clothes, mirrors, compass needle and silver
pieces. Erasc all your Provisions, [n addilion to any-
thing you acquired since passing through lhe magic
porlal, you now have the following: rapier, fine ced
dathes, jewellery, rope of human hair and 10 Gold
Pieces. Lose 3 points from your sktLl and & points
from your stamina (this loss is permanent until you
are told speciftcally lhat il is restored). [IF you try to
find a way Lo stvilch bodies with Reinhardt, lum fo
276, Or you can prepare Lo move; lun lo 175,

63

By following the river, you make your way back to
the town, Allhough you've disposed of one wizard,
your principal fee still remains, It seems lhal your best
chance may be to make for the largest city in lhe area,
for you know that Mencius prefers crowds. A [cw
enquiries around fown soon elicit the name of the cily.
Tum to 448.

.

€ég-71

65

The body of the Demon explodes in a sheel of flame,
then shools straight up in a column of smoke until
nothing Is left of Jl. You are back where you slarted,
but at least you have Jeamt something of the loval
language. You also have a lead: Al-Dakbuk fold you
abou! the city of Kallamehr, which will draw Mlencius
like a magnet; if you are lo track him dawn, you must
search for him there. First, you make your way back to
\he town. Al-Bakbuk is overjoyed al seeing you again
and demands that you tel] him your slory. You explain
what happened. offering him the now useless (bui sill
Precious) ruby cing by way of a goodbye present.
Tum to 372.

70
The spell comes easily to you, As you cast il, Mencius’s
eyelids droop and his breathing slows. Finally he
stands there, unmoving. his head bowed. You take a
step closer and his head snaps up, his eyes glaring at
you malevolently. ‘Slick to what you're good alt’ he
snarls. Tum to gi

94
While easing the pressure on the sorcerer, you slip Lhe
tope up round his neck, He realizes (he implication of

EEE EES wR

76—78

76
Up ahead, a dust cloud signals the approach of riders.
As they close on you, it becomes possible to distin-
guish hyo horses. The riders are dressed in some kind
of armour made of overlapping scales. When they get
near, they pull up and call out lo you. If you have ‘kal
or ‘basic kal’ written on your Adverftre Sheel, lurn lo
a11, Oihenwisc, tum lo 490.

77
You should have remembered the elementary rules of

magehunting. ‘Reinhardt’ throws back his head and
laughs — a laugh of pure evil “You moron!’ he cries. 1
swilched bodes with that worm Reinhardt as a side
effect of the nexus. I said | would have my revenge.
and so I shall — you will serve me until the end of
your days,” Your will trickles away like the last grains
of sand in an hourglass, Mencus has bapped you. You
are his slave now,

78
You find o quiet back-alley and scratch the Holy
Symbol in the dirt. After composing yourself for a
while, you pick up a pebble and toss it into the circle,
Now that you have some idea as to which direction to
follow, you walk along the alley Lo its end and arrive
al... the town wall, According Io your divinatlon, lhe
sorcerer is to be [ound oulside lhe town. Hurrying to
the gate, you Icave the strange selllement, moving in
the direction indicated by the pebble. After several
hours, the light fades; you have still detccted no trace
of Mencius, You settle down for a hard night, Your

”

body aches and you quickly dit of lo sleep. If you
have a wiead’s pouch, tum to 286. If you have 4
Shauea or Saccka Seat, tuen lo x50. Odterwis, turn
toe

”
‘The Skeletons close in. blades whiting, From the
chamber above comes a mocking laugl tis Menus,
Into whose rap you have fallen. Swiaging the sacred
race, you rece two Skeletons to piles of Bones. The
next wave ore more cautious, I only you ean hack
your way through them fo the staircase,

seit gran
Feel SKELETON 6 3
Second SKELETON 6 5
Third SKELETON. 6 5

Fight the Skeletons one at a tine. If you defeat them
in 10 Attack Rounds or less. tum la 392. [F you da
not, tum (© 270.

80
‘You make your way along the road for two days; by.
foraging you manage lo find enough food for baste
survival Pieally you rive at he city, passing Iheough an
impressive arch lo enler ils narrow streets. Tura to 100,

8x
How will you attack the wizaed? (You should choose an
‘option only if you have the appropriate ilem) Do you:

‘Shrike him with a rapier? Tom to 237
‘Shoot hia with a pistol? Tor to 359
Strike him with a broadswordt Tum to 7
Bind him wilh rope of human half? Tum to a55

Or, if you choose not Lo attack the wizard after afl

tum to 54x

a2
Cross off 2 Provisions from your Avertire Sheet
withoul recovering any stamina, At last you sce a
building up ahead. You ace so exhausted you simply
burst through the door without knocking, Inside, the
groups of tables and chairs suggest an inn. Sure
enough, a corpulent, bald fellow scuries out of « back
zoom with a plate of food. which you eagerly devour,
and cup of wine, whieh you drain in 2 single
draught. Recover 2 points of stamina. No one else fs
staying at the inn, so the innkeeper treats you lke
royalty. After a nights sleep and another excellent
meal, you feel far better. The Innkeeper asks you for 2
Gold Pieces for your food and board (hum to 295 i
you cant or wor't pay: olherite, erase them froin
7-73

the and eyes you fearfully. He looks a pitiful, power-
leas figure — but, 2s you well know, mages are a tricky
lol. You try to think of a way of getting round the
language barrier, but for that you will need free hands
- for obvious reasons this & not possible. [f you have
a shackles key, turn lo 495. If you have a Shauca Sear,
tum to 104, Otherwise, turn to 265,

ga
Reinhard| is gone — surely no one could survive a fall
from that height? Nole down lhe word ‘missing’ on
your Arventire Sheet: also erase any ilems Reinharct

Wa Carrying.

‘l am sorry about the death of your countryman.’ «ays
Khasi “bul we must nevertheless dispose of Mencius."
Since you vere not using weapons, you recover z
paints of stamma for every 5 you lost in the fight.
Turn to 93

ye
Note down fame” on your Adprntur: Sheri. In the
tavern Al-Flakduk wastes no bene in telling everyone
all aboul your achievement. Moc! seem sceptical, but
all the same you are qporkly surrounded by an admiring
crowd, Unfortunately, one of them, a thug of a man
with lange muscles and narrow eyes, lakes the opportu-

nity to challenge you fo a fight.
MUSCULAR THUG SKILL 6

If you reduce lhe lhug lo 1 point of stamima turn
fo 137.

STAMINA 9

7493

74

Chocsing your subjects with aoe, you make discret!
engulriea conceming recent newcomers to the ciy,
You learn about all sorts of strange arrivals, but one in
particular seems to match Mencius's current appear-
ance, His clothing is described as outlandish, and his
hair-colour also fits. Going by the name of Saba, he
has established himself rapidly in lhe city by memns of
his regular performances of magic in the bazaar = on
area of the city made up of tents and frequented by
lower-class merchanls. If you continue lo make anquir-
ies, turn lo x46 if you have the word ‘early’ written on
your Adventure Shee! or to 233 if you don'L. If you
hurry on te the bazaar in search of Saba, tum (o 564

73

In the pockets of your fine red dothes you discover
1¢ Gold Pieces and same jewellcry that you guess
must be werth Gar more. On the ground near you is #
key. You recognize il 2s the key to the shackles used
Lo testa Mencius. You pick il up amd pul if in your

. Erase all equi fram your Equipmeni Lest
key, Erase aff your Provisions. For treasure, you have
10 Gold Pieces plus jewellery. Lose 5 paints from your
sxitt and 6 points fom your sTAMINA (this loss is
permanent until you are told specifically that it is
restored), If your ankle hurts, turn to 187. Otherwise,

turn to 436.

ee OE eS _ ee  _

Sys

‘your Advriure She? You leave the dna and press on.
‘over a mounlain pass. Prom here, It seems. the say
Jeads downwards. Your spits rls you make your
‘way dovn the mountainside. Tum to 365.

8s
‘Sor asks ALfakik What do you wanl me to do
about it”

‘You didn’t expect such rudeness from the fellow. If
‘you mk him for a story, tum to 30x. Ifyou tell him his
brother sent you, tury to 413. Othenwise, if you have
the word “rail’ on your Audsenture Shee, arn to 205. If
‘you haver'l, mark a eross an i and turn to 243.

%
Alihengh you ae ssid to He baed be, you have
reckoned withoul Ube faites of the bexly you nor
inhabit Ar you lie down on the parched earth you
become aware that every moscle in your body is
aching, and the sickening pain of the bullet wound in
your stomach fills you with nausea, Reinhard, in his
Given body, has been complaining steadily forthe last
few hours; you had ceased bothering to listen to his
moaning. Now you wish you had. You lie in agony on
the cruel ground, staring, up at unfamiliar stars. You
have pushed the frail shell you inhabit beyond its
limits. Your life stats to ebb away .. the stars slowly
di... for ever.

85
‘Your rope may be useful (or binding mages, but its not
an effective weapon, Ax you close to loop il round

bis arms, your enemy laughs in your face. ‘1 cursed
you to the end of eternity, he says, ‘Now prepare to
theet It A gout of fame leaps fom his hands, strking
{you before you can react. You relain consciousness for
{0 many seconds

86
LUnslinging the rope from your bet. you loop it sound
him and pall tight before he can think to resist. Please
spare me: he pleads. have nothing worth stealing You
Tighten the rope, and he squeals in pain It seers that
the rope not only binds him, it ean hurt him too. Turn
loz0s.

#745

as

You rush along the cold stone corridor, dodging
falling stones, The vibrations intensify as you run and
a crack appears in the floor in front of you. You teeter
on the brink, then leap across. Half jumping, half
falling, you descend the stairs to the dungeons. A
wisp af green emoke is seeping Grom the furthes! cell,
and you can beter a voice raed in same occult
incantation. The ground shakes beneath your feet, but
you sprint to the cell door and cane your head lo see
within. Mencjus glands with arms ralsed, his shackles
lying at his feel, and the rope of human hair dangling
uselessty from his arms. Reinhardt stands, staring, lo
ore side; he is transAxed. with the key to the shackles
+1 in his hand, A guard cawers in the comer of the
celk green smoke is tecping, from the ground, Menus
slarts to spin and, wilh 3 deafening crack. Ihe grourad
splits open. The spinning sorcerer, and the transhmed
Relnhardt, move slowly loward the yawning abyus. 1[
you prepare your pistol (o shoot Mencius, tum to 166,
If you rush him, to try to disrupt his spell turiy lo ago.

EPs 5 f~.

aA
With a final blast of energy Mencius demolishes his op-
ponent, bul he is clearly weakened by the effort — his
fest thought is of escape. When he finds hansell boxed
in by the power of the arde of mirrors, he catses his
atms and lels oul # shrek. Jf you have a pislol and a
silver bullet, lurn to 268. Otherwise, tum lo £86.

Nee y n
ab Paes °

mrt By sign language, you make it plain thal you are

7o"F1

hungry. Your new [riend gemma an altered.
ant, and within 2 few micutes a large bowl of food is
wibing before you Al least, you zomene Il's food, [ar
you've seen before. You taate the gloop, and almonl
choke — it’s no peppery! You are hungry, however, to
you shovel jt down, mialng if with the bland white
stuff to reduce the tplciness. Recover 4 polnte af
sTaMINa (this will not restarc sTAMINA lost by traval-

with a ule’ yrourd (tum to 27)

Lad
The cand ic frm end beret rou feed prcid
ing the clea surface. You pass by the stranger
sated dure, wordenng how @ comes to be so choue to

te beegking waver You discover soon
hillock ghakes, and an efeemeen crab emerges
scultless towards you You may hon avd flee; tum to
340. Otherwise, you sland and fight.

GIANT CRAB skiuLg
lf you defest the crab, turn to ra,

i

STAMIMA tO

ot
You have los! your chance. Marcas completes Ns
spell No devasiating magical bled leaps from
hands to strike you 5 PIE
Then, at you look argand, you realize that achually Ul
& you who oe shrinking. At the same time. bar stari

HE

~——til

ia

g-"83

to sprout all over your body. A tail grows from the
base of your spine. Within seconds the transformation
is complete. pt nd Nn ARN Breas
rat,” he laughs. Somehow it seems such an apt fat

qa

You remove the rope from the mage carefully, ready
for action In case he tries camelhing. He seems equally
caulhous and, when he does move K is very slowly.
He mimes to you very drarly, pointing to the fallen
book and then to his tangue. gestunng ag if speaking.
He dows Hos several tires, then apreade his ane and
rules. [f you leave hin where he 9 ond make pour
wey oul of the care, tum to as3. If you allow ben Ip
retrieve tha book and begin hem opel once again. bum
ha 598.

qerily on a flal roof in «large city.

' covered our approach with a charm of invisibility,
but If f remain here for any length of Hme Menaus
may detect me and flee, says Khasim. ‘So | will wish
you the luck of Hazah, and depart.’ So saying, be
Boste up into the ay once more. The carpet devindles
in the distance al an unbelevable speed You rex a
momen to steady your legs, then detcend by some
thors sicps bo the busy shreel Turn to 200.

| — — | ee Ee See ee eee.

94-95

$4
Somehow you manage to claw your way down lhe

mountain face, pausing lo rest af a convenient ledge.
As you caich your breath a ship heaves Inio aghl
round the nrountain. You blink. A ship? Sure enough a
wooden two-masler in drifting through the air towards
you, comimg gently lo a hall oppasile your ledger. A
hort figure deeserd in brightly coloured garb, its face
shrouded by a large cows, hops ta the rail ard slides 5
plank oul torards you. if you walk along the plank,
tum ta aot. If you don't, Tet vo Lurk. If you are
Lucky, tum to 164. If you are Unlucky. turn lo 528.

95

‘As you hack the evil bird oul of the air, its aily black
fealhrers cascade donn reund you. You jus! place your
foot an the frst step leading to the door of the
Ommnipresen! Tower when a vaice fram behiral calls
you back. Ii is Hanif Al-din Hasan. the loyal vizier of
the Caliph of Khorasan. His dothing is tam and dirty,
and his dust-beprimed face bears a partly healed
wound,

‘In the name of Hozah before you enter the torrcr,
asskal rw,” he pleads. “1 have fied from Khorman
where an evil sorcerer has replaced me with a sorcerous
crealure that retembles me exacily. If you wil ad me.
( can return lo the palace. slay the impostor and sel
matiers aright.” ’

You may not have another chance to enter the bower,
instead. you should offer the vizier samething to brlp
him, Check your Adewrnture Steet. Provided you have

ame Lg

iL you muy give ham any one of the following items:
Haly Symbal Book of Craft, cuby ring, wizard's pouch.
gold hex. vizier's robe. magic emulel, pido! and
bullets, serrated knife or a sword. Crass off the item
yau give him, then turn to 382.

96
Remhardl is bttle help to you bul you maruge fo
onlleci score bateles and sticks aed cuke a fre. As the
flames ree. you watch carefully to sew which way they
pool. [t's beard to lef exactly, bus lhey seem to be
pointing along the mountainside. upstrvem. If you
follow the direction indicated, han to 350. If you
dimb up the mouniareide lo get = better view, tum
to 583.

v7
After a wtule, Kurt leads you lo a jumbled pile af
rocks, [In the middle.
store Under @ you
81.

be
find a hidden opening, Turn to

ad

You dammdb the slams terfatively ard knock loudly on
He brass-studded door, rtwch promeily svings open.
Entering, you And yourself in a great hal] decorated
with furniture of great cost; there le mo sign of anyone
Tuming, you see yourself reflected Jn 4 mitror. Than
something strange about the reflection maker you
pause. You quickly rane your rgehi arm, The reflection
doesn’H bmstead il throws back ity head laughe then
starts chanting and geshunng. Turn to yos

59
How will you atteck the vrizard? (You should choose
a option anly if you have the appropriate tem) Do
You

Strike him with a rapier! Turn to a3F
Shoot him with a pistol? Tum to 530
Shrike hum with = broakword? Turn to ¥
Bard hien seth rope of fruman hag? = Turn to 591

If you choose nol to alback Phe ovigand after all hum
to 262.

100-101

100
cily comprises a darcing varety of buildings.
ae any you've seen before.

Rerce-looking. There are even some shange aeahees
who dan‘! seem to be human at all. All this variety
doesn't make your lak ayy easier. IT you have a
ruby ring, tum to sy. If you haven't but ym do
have a scar (Sneeka of Shaura) of Ihe word ‘ahan-
dared written down. tum to agg. Otherwrse, tum

1014
your body. bs rhes death? A memory 5 nagging af
you, bud you cannal place it... untill light bursis upon
your eyes — torchight, You ar im a cll A cack
purders the four, Ronherdt is standing on one side.
Somehow you have retumed to the Margrave's castle,
Reinhardi is delighted to be beck hame, and in his
own bady, bul for you the homecoming is Gar from
joyful, You have defemied Mencics, bue, bul ai a
terrible cos! to yourscl, For the cesl of your life you
emacti wear the prematurely aged body of your bated
enemy. YWwes the cecrifice worth #? Retnharct rewards
yoru amply, bul somehow you can't help feeling thot
you mitsed tap many chances, Wilh your body and
your confidence shattered, your magelumbing days ar
over, An carly retirement ip al] thal the future bes in
atore for you.

LOI—104

103
You dispatch the thief quickly and quietly. Casting
your eyes round the room he Jed you inlo, you spol a
fine crystal goblet with inlald gems. [f you take it, note
it down on your Adventure Sheri, As you leave the
room, a man leading a donkey slares at you curiously.
Jgnoring him, you hurry off into town. Your altempl
lo follow Reinhardt clearly requires more ability at
communication than you have at present: you musi
learn a liKle of the local language. Tum to 189 if you
have already been Io the tavern or to 293 if you
haven'L,

105
Using a stout stick which you find near by, you star
to scrape the Holy Symbol into the dry earth of the
hillside. For this method lo work correcily, you must

104

be perfecHy composed. Once [he symbol Js complete,
you choose a suilable slone, offer up a prayer, and
toss (he stone into the circle. It bounces once, rebound-
ing In an unexpected dircction. Tracing a line from the
centre of Ihe symbol lhrough the slone, you work out
the direction you will have to bavel, by aiming Jor a
distinclive cluster of racks high on ihe mountainside.
Hoping that Mencius Lsn't foo far away, you set off
Walking in this heat is licing work, particularly with
you in such a weakened slale, You make good lime,
however. Beyond the rocky oulcrop you come upon
a mountain path which seems to lead in the right
direction. Turn to 52.

Fs ar
Cc ut, , OF pe
Ae <t f ia Jt 3 of
Be ie it ie Be |:

‘Let him go free! a familiar voice calls. Reinhardt is
Slanding a little way down the tumnmel, ‘He rescued me
when you abandoned me to the Shauca’ he says
105

pelulanily. You look al the mage again, hen loosen
the cope a little. Very slowly, he reaches oul fo touch
the Shauca Scar, recites a file chant, and the scar
disappears (erase I from your Adveninire Sheet}. Is this a
(rick? He points Lo the fallen book, If you let him pick
if up and continue his spell. (um lo 393-1! you tighten
lhe rope and strangle him to dealh, lum fo 236.

105
Now you have a dog (nale it down on your Adveupure
Sheet) bul, since il hasn't been fed on goat's meal, il
won't be much help in tracking Meneius. If you Iny to
make enquiries in the lown, lum lo 326, Otherwise,
you will have to asceriain the mage's direction by
drawing a Holy Symbol (tum to 78).

to6—107

106

In order le obtain enough goal meal lo [eed your dog,
you will have to pay 2 Gold Pieces; if you don't already
have somewhere to slay, you wil] have lo pay another
2 Gold Pieces for food and lodging for yourself, [F you
can't or won't pay, bum back lo a67, If you buy the
goat meal, cross 2 Gald Pieces of your Adventure
Sheet. Then, if you have somewhere lo stay, turn lo
\he appropriate paragraph. If you haven't, cross off
another 2 Gold Pieces and decide whether you will lie
low while feeding the dog (tun to £70) oF continue lo
search the city (turn lo 262).

407

There’s something very unusual aboul Mencius: not
only Is his hair streaked with grey, but also his skin
has aged. Apart from the wound in his head, blood is
also flowing from the bullet-wound in his belly. Al-
though the silver bullet pierced his skin, you know
that his sorcerous power must have drawn the edges
of the wound together. It seems that Mencius has no
power left, for haw else could the wound have re-
opened? You untie the rope of human hair, keeping il
handy in case the mage shows any signs of regaining
his magic. Now, what to do about the wound? If you
slanch if, turn lo 379. If you remove the silver bullet
first, lurh to 214.

, *s
=

\ &

Pah \
EN
INN

108

108

You find yourself staring at ... Reinhardt! For a
Moment you think the fellow mus! have some kind of
portrail, bul then you reallze: it's a mirror, Somehow
you are occupying Reinhardt’s body, But if you are in
Reinhardt's body, lhe corpse you left back al the river
tnust have been, , , Reinhardt, And ils former occupant,
the evil wizard Mencius, is now roaming ihe land in
your likeness! The pieces fall into place = the slrange
clothes you are wearing, the Lransformation of your
broadsword into a delicate rapier, COnce more you
search \hrough your pockets, comirming what you
already know to be fue: you have Reinhardt’s posses-
sions. Your magehunting gear is now in the possession
of lhe very person it's destgned to capture! The young
(elfow has waited patienlly while you checked your
belongings, bul now you have a very different task -
you mus hunt down a lruly deadly mage. You convey
lo him thal you mo Jenger aced his help. He ushers
you oul of the room and into the busy streel.

Shorily afler you wave goodbye Lo him, you discover
that he has picked your pockets. Maybe you shouldn't
have revealed their contents in [ront of him. He has
laken all your monty, your jewellery and your ruby
ring (erase them from your Adweuture Sheet), IF you
want lo iry to find the thief and reclaim your property,
lum lo gx If you prefer lo start looking for Mencius
slraighl away, lum to 1g8. If you want to try to get
more used to this strange land you're in. turn lo 293 if

you haven'l yet been to the tavern, and to 189 if
you have.
T1y-1E4

115
Green smoke seeps from the ground. You start to
but somihow yousr eyes remain focused on the ground
at your feet. The stone splits open; a crack yawns in
front of you. You move towards it and fall headlong
into darkness, As you tumble endlessly through the
nothingness of other dimensions, you have plenty of
time to reflect on the foolishness of untrained attempts
at the Evil Arts. Your magehunting career ends here.

114
Drawing closer to the cliffs. you spy a narrow path
leading up and over them. Following this brings you
to a fishing village. The village folk greet you a
warily as you enter, but then they offer you food
drink (recover 2 poinis of stamina). Your enquiries
are met with stares, tut they eventually put you

=
a

from the same cloth as many you have met in your

preven adventures, amuses you by teaching you
(most of which you already know). After a short

215-117

joumney, the boat arrives al the lage cily of Kallametu.
Biddirg the frlendky fisherman goodbye. you muke
your way inlo te mazy slreets. Turn lo 100,

i135
With a mighty blow you leap at the Hon anal strike its
head from ils body. Bul a cackle comes fram rear by.
You tum your head, ard black mings blol oul the
sun... Tum fo 151.

426

Your next problem it to feed the dog tor a week on
goals meal. Luckity, ihe animal seflerm here cell live
goals so you can be sure of getling the right ammal
Unfortucutely, & goal costs 3 Gold Pieves. You will
also need 2 Gold Pieces to live an for thal week and
as you have already dicovered prem in thes land are
exortilant. The goal seller will accep’ jevrellery a: a
oryttal goblet, if pou have other, in Geo of the 9 Gald
Pieces. M you buy the goal using money or jewellery,
cross the payment off your Adombwr Sher and lun to
igs MH you buy Ihre goal uning a ofystal goblet, cross il
off your Adembore Shae? ancl lurn to 27a. If you don'l
buy Lhe goal, turn to 109.

17
You can help yoursell to food from the inn’s lotchens
(make a nole of up to 4 Provisions on your Advmmbver
Stent, d you do this), Leaving Ihe inn you proceed
along a palh up the mounlainskde, finally heading, over
& mountain pass. From here you make your way
down. Turn to 36g.
stag

18
‘Making your way lo the lop of 2 hill to spy out the
land, yeu observe the coast, same distance away, and
by il the unvnislakable signs of a cily. You are just
preparing ta descend when a sudden gust of wind
almost knocks you off your (eet. Thea the sun is
blotied out, and yu hear a tremendous sound, tke the
lapping of the canvas salls of a hundeed and ‘one
ships. Descending ypan yan is an enormous bird of
prey. ils lalons outstretched.

BIRD of PRODIGIOUS SIZE seiLL 7 stantna as
I the bird wins two attacks in succession, make sore
that you have ole its catrenl stanowa inthe Encous

fer bos, then furn to 3a. I you defeal the enormous
creature, lurn to 37,

19
11 doesnt lake you long 19 find a storyteller. On
slreet comer a dishevelled old man dtessed in patch-
work clothes is addressing » motley crowd of seeet
urchins, poor Uraders and drunks, His slory goes some-
thing lke is

‘One day Burah-Bashar went koa feast. He was wearing
his everyday clothes and, when he went in, nobody
spoke to him and nobody fered him a seat So
Borch-Bashar went home and pul on his best clothes.
Uen returned fo the Least. The host welcomed him
wwammly, showed him to a good seal and offered him
the best dishes,

‘Burah-Bashar put his coat among the foad and said
10g-i121

109
‘Get me oul of heref Reinhardl hisses urgently. The
guards along the tunnel have a key.’ Even though you
hate the ungrateful wretch, his father treated you wilh
nobility so, in memory of techiner, you charge back
along the tunnel, surprising lhe hyo guards you passed
eacLer.

SKILL STAMINA
First DYVYELLER IN
DARKNESS 5 6
Second DWELLER IN
DARKNESS 7 6

Fight them one at a lime, Because of the poor light,
you must fight with your Allack Strength reduced by
1 point, JF you defeat the guards, Lurn to a7.

120

Further down the river, you join up with a path -
obviously well frequented. A few minutes laler, you
tcach a town. At least, you assume it’s a town, Where
you come from, towns don’t have walls round them,
or towers with tops shaped like onions. The path leads
to a gale in the svall, guarded by swarthy fellows
bearing wickedly curved swords, They look human —
just — which reassures you a Jillle. [F you lry to enter
Lhe town, turn to go. If you pass by, turn to 237.

411
Cross off the bullet (or diamond) you fired from your
Advcature Shee. Your macksmanship doesn’t fil you:

11a

you hit the encmy fill Jn the chesl. The figure lets oul
a scream of shock as it is Aung over the side of lhe
ship, continuing lo wail as it falls down, down, lo
break on the rocks below, The ship now starts lo
shake and, with gathering speed, rockets towards a
rock face, on which it smashes inlo splinters. Nole
down the number ‘333° on your Adventure Sheet, Next
ime you Tes! yoru Luck, make a note of the paragraph
you are al, (hen tum to paragraph 333. Now lum la
paragraph 365.

1ia

Al mention of his brother, Al-Fakik haps backwards
and looks you up and down through bloodshot eyes.
His manner changes abruptly to one of fawning solict-
Hide. “Yes, yes, yes, of course I'll help youl New lo
this land? Don’t warry, T'll sort things out for you.’ He
bustles you oul of his hut and points lowards a large
building. ‘Look for the large man with a monkey on
his shoulder: his narne is Saleera, Mention Harun al-
Haron to him, May Hazazh bless your way.” So saylng,
he scurties back into his hul. If you go in search of
Saleem, lum to 394. Otherwise, if you have the word
‘trail’ on your Adventure Sheet, tum to a0g. If you
haven't, mark a cress on it and turn bo 244.
440

“Eat, Coat!” The olher guests were amazed and asked
him what on earth he thought he was doing. He
replied: “When I came in my old clothes, nobody
looked at me or offered me anything. But when I came
back in these clothes, you gave me fine food and drink.
So these things were [or my dathes, not for mel”:

There is a faint ripple of amusement from [he crowd, If
you want to question the storyleller, you will have to
drop some money in his bowl. Cross off he amount
you give lo the storyteller, then turn io 370, Olher-
wise, lf you have the word ‘trail’ wrilten dowr. tum la
205; if not, mark a cross and twm to 24.1.

120
The bird gets a good grip on you once more and
descends to the pinnacle of a mountain crag, where il
has constructed a huge nest. Inside the nest, the bird’s
young await [hele feed: you! The bird releases you and
you seize your chance; you must fight all the birds.

SEILL STAMINA
BIRD of PRODIGIOUS SIZE 7 *' (current)
First YOUNG BIRD 4 7
Second YOUNG BIRD 4 6
Third YOUNG BIRD 5 4

Fight the birds one al a lime. [f you defeat all the
birds, Lun to az.

em

{21-124

123
You have no idea what the woman is saylng, so you
shake your head in mule incomprehension, There is
silence while Ihe woman stares at you. Then she clicks
her fingers. Tum to 197.

122
‘Sure enough, the prince released the man from his
chains and lrelped him escape. The prince's kindness
was repaid, however, with treachery. Conjuring the
dark spirits which served him. the ungrateful sorcerer
lransiormed the prince into a mountain lion, lhen
disappeared to distant parts. The prince desperately
tried to find sameone who wauld help him, but of
course everyone ran away whenever he approached.
So he wandered the land nally reaching a mighty
desert, Far away in the distance, across the shilling
sands, he thought he could see a tower. He remem-
bered tales which spoke of a wizard wha dwell in a
tower, so he set his nose in that direction and started
lo walk, He had nol gone far when a crack appeared in
the ground in front of him. From [t emerged a mighty
Efreet, one of the Genie of the Marid. The prince
guaked in fear.

123-4

‘“You have crossed my path, so [ ast lal) you.” said
the frighiful Efreei. “Bui before 1 do, | will tell you
a tale of my brother, so that you may understand my
achans.”’ Tum to 371

133
You put gome distance belween you and the caye,
rumning back the way you came. When you reach
the river, you are desperately thirsty. so you stllde
down the bank Unforiunately, you are so lined
Ehal you can't prevent yoursel! plunging into the [asl-
flowing rtream. You are carried some way down-
river before your flailing strokes bring you close
encugh to the bank Io haul yourself aut of the
water. You rest for a while before conlinuing in
seach of your mosi amportan! neett same foal! Tum
to 145.

124
WIth a look of desperation in his eyes, Mencius takes
lo the air, flapping hl arms frantically. You are re-
minded of the way he toaked the first ime you
caplured him, though the clrcumslances now are rather
different. Again he casts about, trying to escape, bul
he cannot penetrate the circle of mirrors so quickly.
Like a bird of prey. he-seliles on one of the rafters. ‘[
still have enough power lo blast you, you hell-cursed
worm. So saying, he faises his arms ance again, His
shiek, like the wailing of a Hrousand damned souls,
makes your scalp prickle, This vill be his most powerful
blest yet, end you amulet hos no moe powss, Tum
to 186.

gap-126

429
“Oh, 2's you! comes a familiar voce, You hun and see
Reinhardt, standing further along the tunnel. ‘Khasim
testued me from the Shauca after you abancloned me,
a typical ...’ his voice trails off. Khasim he exclaims.
He is staring at the dead wizard, Turn to 234.

With such sien Language and the limated expressions
al your dispasal. you manage to convey that you are
trying to find a sorcerer, You strike lucky quite quickly
- a white-bearded old man nods emphatically. You
learn that the man you seek is outside town, and the
white-beard offers to guide you there. On the journey
you bry to make conversalion wilh the old man. bul
you constantly come up against the barriar of language.
Afler walking into the hills for 9 couple of hours. you
arrive at a sheltered valley. The white-beard calls out,
‘Khasi.’ and says something {o you that you can't
quite understand — except that it includes the word
‘torceres”. From a cave opening comes another old
man, Hus one teaming the same strange cloth hat you
had noticed on several of Eee townsfolk. Alter a shost
127-450

conyersalion with him, your guide bids you farewell
and lurns to make his way out of the valley. You tum
in bermusement to the hal-wearing cave-chveller. Tum
to 508,

in7

You thank the wizard, and he offers you something:
i's a five-sided gold coin covered with illegible sym-
bols. Jt may be useful, so you put il in your pockel
(nole down ‘gold hex’ on your Adgenture Sheet}, and
make your way out of the tunnel. The wizard Indicated
that the Gty of Kallamehr lies lo the soulh-west, Tum
lo 29.

128
You check the river, then scan the mountainside above
you, but you can see nothing. However, the strange
feeling makes you nervous, so you pull Reinhardl to
his feet and set off again. Tum to ags.

ag

A sword is useless againsl a mage unless il has Arst
been wetted wilh his blood. Your wild swing barely
unbalances your enemy. 1 cursed you to the end of
eterrty,” he says. ‘Now prepare to meet il!’ A questing
gout of flame leaps from his hands, striking you before
you can react You remain conscious for too mary
seconds,

130
Do you understand ‘kal’ or ‘basic kal? Wf you do, bum
lo 6, If you do nol, you can try to Jeam something

11-134

about the town (turn to 293. umless you have already
been fo the tavern; in this case, tum to 2189) or you
can avoid wasting lime and try to communicate using
gestures (lurn to a5a).

432

Mencius is concentraling so hard on his spell that he
doesn’t realize what you are doing. No sooner has the
magical bolt left his hands than the dizzying sensation
of body switch hits you, In the nexl splil second you
have time to noHce the look of absalute helplessness
in Mencius's eyes as he realizes that he has no lime to
reverse the switch. The spell erupts in a cascade of
scintillating colours and Mencius’s body is blown into
a thousand and one pieces. Then the scene before you
is swallowed up in blackness, absolute blackness. Check
your Adventure Sheet. IF you have a shackles key or the
word ‘lost’ wrillen down, tum lo 260. If you haven't,
and the box marked ‘Switch’ is Licked, lurn to 400;
otherwise, hum to 409.

15a
You scoop out a shallow grave, drag the corpse into it
and pile earth and stones on top. After all this exertion
you are panting, so you rest in the shade. You certainly
feel different — far more tired than you would expect.
You drift off te sleep ... and awaken as the sun is
sinking, casting long shadows over the hills. Before
ihe light is gone, you check your possessions. To your
surprise, there is no sign of your pistol or mirrors
(oss thern off your Adventure Sheet}. Turn to 75.
i
5)
‘|

= ae

we
SR
4

‘

=, . ;
ro Me

pation!

J,

pS

139-134

133
‘Put me back in my own body! he demands, ‘I'm sick
of being in this old man’s shell, and my stomach hurts
al) the lime.’

‘You have my sympathy, Khasim replies, ‘and } will
attend lo your injuries straight away. However, the
body swilch is beyond my power to reverse. [ susped
that if is inherently unstable, so an opporlunily should
arise in goad time.’

Reinhardt lets out an exasperated ‘Hub!’ and looks
away, Khasim takes a tiny jar of powder out of a small
pouch, recites a short chant, and places his hand on
Reinhardt’s stomach. Reinhardt drifts off to sleep. In
the Companion box of your Adventure Steet, erase any
current entries for sTAMINA and SKILL and enler the
values sKILL 6, sTAMINA 12. If you have a Shauca
Scar, erase it, Tum lo 64.

134

Mark a cross on your Adventrme Sheel. Afler the
show, you follow the magician, taking care that he
can't sec you. He makes his way Lo a lent on the far
side of the tent distriel. You check as many footprinis
as you can see clearly, but none are those of a cat.
You wait for a short lime after he enters his tent,
then peer in carefully. The magician seems to be
ealing @ light meal. If Kurt is wilh you, bum lo 177.
Otherwise, you can prepare lo ambush him (tum to
59} or you can give up and Iry something else (tum
Lo 242).

TyF-T37

5
around to see if the Shambler is following you. Luckily
its huge legs are not built for speed. so you outdistance
it. If you have the shackles key or a Seeks Scar, turn
lo 377. Otherwise, turn to 274,

136
Further enquiries revaal no one else thal sounds like
Menclus. Mark 9 ¢ross on your Adventure Sheet. If you
decide ta head for the bazaar. lun to 364 Otherwite,
bum ig 242.

137
The fellow takes » dep backers, pausing for breath.
If you finish ham ofl. tum to axé. If you spare hie,
ham 10 540,

133-134

134
Ciumbing the steps behind you act Remar! and @
old mam in a cloth hal. Bul you have no toe for
happy reouors. You beoumr eware of « m
the greet hall: » figure has pus! descended the starase
in the opposite wall [i's you! Or, rather, It Ip Mencas
In your body. He starts Hightly as he secs you.

‘Ha! Came lo redaim your flash?’ he taunt, ‘Over your
dead body! So saying. he begins weaving a» sorcerqus
spell

You prepare to attach, bul the old man pushes pr
you “Flaet he cies. His drength is grealer than ever. |
will hold him off.’ So saying, he slarts to chan! and
gesture. Seoorads lates. an caphrtion of magical force
erupts a3 Ihe bro witares cast spells of bearful dectruc-
tree poser mt each other. if you stay to herp, bun in
4+ lf you flee, cross the Gold Hex off your Adorntere
Sheet if you had it, thon hun te 576,

139

You tel off up the mauniam. aswng the relentless
sun, After barely ball an hour, Reinhardt is complecing
of Hredness. Since he is badly injured. and Js stuck in
the prematurcly aged body of the sorcarer, you relent
and find a llllke shade In which to rest As you lic
there. you feel a strange diceinesa and your scalp
prickles Tew pomw fork MW you are Lucky. tum lo 152.
If yey ave Unlucky, ham to a3.

Spee

140-141

140

The creature’s body splashes, lifeless, into the river and
Js carried away by the current, You res! briefly, then set
off again. By now, long shadows are streaking lhe land.
Aer another hour of walking it has grown too dark to
continue, You find a shellered spot, build a fire to keep
you warm, and pass a resHess, hungry night, hoping
lhal no more evi] creatures are wailing in lhe dark to
ambush you Lose 1 point from your stamina, Next
moming you face a choice; you may continue in
the same direction (tum to 4} or retrace your steps
{turn to 469).

141

Ramming the diamond down lhe barrel, you aim
carefully and squeeze the Irigger. The charge hils
Mencius fyll in the forehead. He stares back at you in
utter aslonishment, then his body crumples. As you

14i-144

watch in revulsion, it starts lo decompose, shrinking
tapidly and giving off a malodoraus green gas. Finally
the gas coalesces round the diamond, seeming lo
disappear Inio it. All that is left is the gem. Cauliously
picking ft up, you peer into Jis sparkling depths, Is that
lortured figure wilhin really the essence of Mencius?
While you are staring, Into lhe diamond, the scene
before you is swallowed by absolute blackness. If you
have the shackles key or the word ‘lost’ written down,
lum to 260; olhenvise, Lurn to 10.

142

Next moming, you are almost surprised to awaken
unharmed, You look around for ithe tracks made by
last night's attackers, and are pleased to discover that
they are clearly visible, You follow them for a short
distance to a jumbled pile of rocks. The tracks lead out
from under a heavy stone, Peering under it, you
discover an opening, Tf il hadn’t been for your skill in
iracking, you would have missed it, Tur to 354,

143
By now you are unbelievably lired. On the way back.
you keep your eyes peeled and manage to spol another
hairy Shambler while still some distance away. Tum

to 47,

Topi
M seems pleased by your geslure and adopts a less
threatening stance, However, it keeps its exquisite

eyes locked on you as you edge round it and make
your way out of the ruins. Turn lo 264

AY
i Si

n 2 r

fg
7
4

~
; 4 ont "
“ As,

at 0 : ' why ~~ . iy"
re ie i “a 7
PA ds ie 2) ES aT), D
(>> . x A ee re ~ :
— DAY fen. i, 4s f
ashi >
La}

-.
Hear

7
Vr ’ 7% .
or. hl

- ’ .
, ’
M4 af ry) ; <
= rs
‘ 10 e- c
6 Se ae
Se vs. »
»?
, ‘ 4 ‘
a 1
‘
. '
f rc

145-146

145

Your language ability is rather limiled bul you reason
thal, since most of ihe people here are dark of hair and
skin, a foreigner such as yoursel! would stand out. You
enquire about peaple whe resemble you, soon leaming
alsoul a newcomer Io the ciby. You can't [ollow the
complex explanation that accompanies lhis informa-
tion, bul a kind woman guides you through lhe streets
and points you fowards a ramshackle district which
seems to be made entircly of lenis. You slip in among
the teats, wilh a wariness honed by the possibility that
you are gelling near Menelus. A crowd is assembling
in a large, open space in the middle of the encampment,
watching some kind of entertainment. You draw closet
and peer over the heads of the onlookers at a crude
stage, With a gasp, you realize that you are watching
a magic show: a performer in heavy make-up is prod-
ucing a string of silk scarves from every part of his
body and flinging them on to a table already laden
with rabbits, fruit, cups, bails and even a little yellow
bird in a cage, Though the make-up is thick. the
build, hair-colour and facial shape all match. Surely
this is Mencius! [& you wait in ambush and attack
the magician when he finishes his show, tum to
343. However, if you prefer to [ollow him discreetly,
lum lo 134.

146
You scoop out a shallow grave, drag the corpse
inlo it and pile earth and stones on top, Then you
tum your aHention to finding Reinhardt. Tum to

336,

147-149

147

Al-Bakbuk is overjoyed to receive the jewellery and
precious things from you, Me hugs you warmly, kissing
you on bolh cheeks, then hurries off lo present you
with a parting gift, which lums oul to be an infricalely
embroidered robe. This trivial ilem may assist your,’
says Al-Bakbuk, “as il is the robe of a relired Vizier of
lhe Calipli’s court, People will lreat you wilh respect
while you are wearing this robe," Although you have
little idea whal a ‘vizier’ or a ‘caliph’ may be, you
accept Lhe gift pracchilly (note down the ‘vizier’s robe'
on your Adventure Sheet), Al-Bakbuk also advises you,
when you reach Kallamehr, te sevk out his brother, lhe
storyteller AJ-Haddar, You summon the Genie and,
with a Mash, you appear in lhe sleects of Kallamehr,
Note dawn the word ‘early’ on your Adventure Sheet
and turn fo 100.

148
A huge allendant closes in from eilher side and grabs
you by lhe arm, [f you offer no resistance, tum to 299.
Otherwise, you must fight the courliers.

SKILL STAMINA
First COURTIER 6 8
Second COURTIER 5 7

Fight both the courtiers at the same time. Each will
make a separale allack against you in each Altack
Round, but you must choose which one you will
attack, Fight against your chosen large! as normal.
Against the olher opponent, coll for AHack Strengths

ay oormal, but you may not wound him: you are

149

simply allempting to parry his slrike. If you defeal the
courtiers, tum to 23.

149

There is the strangest sensalion of falling upwards as
you keep on slaring deep into Reinhardk's eyes. Your
quick wits realize what is happening — the spell which
swilched your badies is reversible! You now know
how to switch bodies. Whenever your scalp prickles,
you can change bodics with Reinhardl or Ilencius.
You will not be given this as an oplion, bul you may
chose to switch anyway. To swlich, add logether the
digits of the paragraph you are at, fhen add the result
to the paragraph you are at. For example. you are now
at paragraph agg. If you wish to switch bodies wilh
Reinhardt, add the digits (1+4+9= 14), add this
Eotal lo the curren! paragraph (24 +249= 164) hen
tum to thal paragraph (in this case £65) [f, on the
alher hand, you wish to break eye-contact with Rein-
hardt and prevent the transfer, lum to 520.

i1gO-1g1

150
The phase mears ifs end... your himgs erp bursting ..,
Mioencins iurmg fis head and sees you... a silver bullet
from your pistol brings kim crashing soivn ... T curse you
to Me cial of elernity ... fo the end of etentily ... to the
end of elermiiy,.. to The end. .'

You wake up, to find yourself lang in a comfortable
bed. Leaning over you are Remhardt and the old man
who Lried to cast a spell an you carlier, Cross the scar
off your Aduwmiure Sheri and turn to 48.

15t
You wake up, to find Al-Haddar sprinkling rose waler
on your facs, ‘l told you thal my storles were all
true,” he grins, ‘and evidently you gol rather involved
in il, Perhaps tomorow night we will lake the story
fuather; but for now it seerns it mux end here’ Tun
fo 244.

353

152
Glarcing around, you happen to catch Rembhardt’s evr.
You lock stares, and the dizziness grows slronger.
There is a feeling like falling [hrough the air, and you
find yourself glaring into Reinhardt’: cyes — but now
Reinhardt is back In his own body! A sharp pain in
your stamach confirms thal you are now in the body
of Plencius! Reinhardl is delighied to be restered to
bis matural stale. [nm the bex marked ‘Companion’ on
your Adpentiurg Sheet, write ‘s’ next lo seitt and ‘&
nexi lo STAMINA, Then Lick Lhe box marked ‘Swilch’ in
the baHom right-hand corner. This box show's that
you have sviliched bodies wilh your companion,
Unless you switch back, you will use the sxii. and
STAMINA Scores Of your companion Write any equip-
ment you gan whde in this bady m the bottom pari
of the Equipnent box, se that you can keep track of
who has what,

You naw know how to switch bodies. Whenever your
scalp prickles, you can change bodice with Reinhardt
or Mencius, You will nol be given lhis as an option,
but you may choose to swilch anyway. To switch,
simply add together the digits of the paragraph you
ace al, ben acid Ihe result to the paragraph you a al.
For example, f you were al paragraph 139, you
would add the digits (1 +3+o= 13), then add this
{olal ta the paragraph you were at (13 + 139 = 152)
and then turn lo paragraph 152, Back In his awn body,
Reinhardt is eager 1o be off again. Turn to 388.

Oe
WS3-154

155
You wamanan the Genre areal obtasn from bem some
fabulously jewelled daggers, which you lavish upon
the palace functionaries. The Genie abruptly tells you
that this was your last wish; then he disappears, taking
the ruby cing with him (cose if aff your Adventur
Sheri}, Note down the sand ‘fame’ then turn to 551

The wiaard opens a large book and tarts to chant,
Your eyelids begin to feel like lead weights, and you
drift Into alumber

You avaken te find yourself lying on a comfariable
bed, With a sudden shock you realize you can now
urdevsiand the local Language. (Nole down ‘al on
your Adventure Slant — if you already have ‘hasic hal’,
¢craue the ward ‘hagic.) The wizard notces that you
have woken and coma: over la you

‘De you under and noes7 he asks.
Perfectly.” you reply. Turn to 48

15-157

iS

Unslinging the rope from your belt, you loop it round
the sorcerer and pull before he can think to resist.
The book drops from his hand and he mouths further
itrange sounds. You tighten the rope and he squeals in
pain, It is unusual that he can be hurt so easily, but it
may be a ruse. If you try to strangle him with the
rope, turn to agg. If you try to find a way to question
him, turn to oa.

ry6
Reinhardt ip hard pressed by the second highwayman
but eo far he seer to furve kep! out of the way of his
oppanent’s erord As you finish off the find. he tures
10 look al you, mauthing Help! desparingty Your
walp praddes and you expenenct a vifiigincss scres-
ton of Ging Turn to 16.

157
Using the stubby wings on its bach, tha cresture rises
Into the air and. flapping furiously. flles off Inland. Will

yOu:
Shoat it with a pistol Gf you have
one}? Tum {0 30
Make your way to Lhe coad? Turn to a64
Search the ruins? Turn to 34%

igl-aj9

156

Al:Haddar decides to Ihrow a feast in your honour,
inviting several of his friends to jain him. The fine
{ood and lively conversation go on for several hours,
and Al-Haddar entertains you with a contiroocas stream
of funny stares. IF you do aot have the word ‘tral’,
ad you do have both the word ‘tal’ and cilher 2
vizier's tobe or Al-Bakbuk’s gla, turn to 347. Other-
whe, lf you have the word 'trall’. or if you don’ have
tha other items, turn to ag4.

15¢

Wilh Mencius dead, you can devole your altention lo
trying to uralerstand the strange land to which hn

caied you The continuing heat is hotter than
the hottest summer you can remember, and you have
yel lo see a tree bike Lhe cool dak pines of your
homeland, these are all shumpy, bvisled monstrositics.
Perhaps the inhabitants of thts land follow the sarre
pottern? You soon have an opportunity for comparison,
Alter Jolning a swell-frequantad path, you come upan a
town — at least you assume t's o town You aré nol
accuglomed to towns with walla round [hem, or lowers
of yellow day with tops chaped like onions, for ihal
matter! The path leads to a gate in the wall guarded
realize that you were half right — they are several
cenlimeires shorter than you, with rather count faces
and hooked noses. Their skin is tanned by the blazing
tun, and their clothes are unlike any you have ever
sean, You approach warily, but the guards take little
netke of you. Soon you find yourself in bustling

160

streels full of strange, dark people. You notice that
tnost are wearing clothas of silk which would strain
even the Margrave’s purse. You also hear their chatter:
head ache. [f you start making enquiries about Rein-
hardt straight away, turn to 230. If you spend a little
fame geting setlled in first. turn to 293.

160

Finally three corpwes lle before you. Examining them,
you are shocked to discover that they are not human
— their skin is ay black as night, their green eyes
slanting, and their ears large and pointed, You take
one of the serrated knives with which they fought
{note it down on your Adoenisure Sheet). Exhausted by
the Gght. you siunp to the ground Now, at last. you
cm sleep. Luclaly, Rewhardt seems to be wide wrrake.
You just hope he can keep an eye out for more
trouble. Turn to 144,

Se eed

161-163

161

You lake oul the ruby ming. It is lockme a little
urubby, so you give ii 4 polish on your sleeve, There
te a ash like the discharge of a pistol the acd smell
of sulphur, and a huge. monsirgus figure is sanding
before you, Al-Bakbuk rushes into the room and, on
seeing the cnormous dreabure, Aurls himself to the
ground. wailing pitiably, The demonic thing speaks, in
a voice like colling thunder, ‘Ask, and [ shall obey,’
Will you;

Altack the evtl crealure? Tum lo 6%
Ask il lo dake you Lo Reinhardt? Turn lo yz
Ask it lo teach you the language? Tum to 347

163

Te oblain an audience, you require a vizir’s robe
otherwise you will have to bribe the vartous funclian-
anes at the palace, Tactful enquities cevcal that this will
require cither rs Gall Pieees or any one of the
fallawing: a diamond, + piece of jewellery, a crystal
goblet, a ruby cing, or 4 Inpis lazuli brooch, [F you
know the secret of the ring and you still possess 1,
you may usé that, Otherwise, if you have a vizier’s
tobe or if you wish to make the bribe, crass lhe
sppropnate payment off your Adoernfture Shei, then
tum lo 352 [i you wanl to choose anolher option
allogether, ban to 241,

164
A sharp pain in your stomach jolts you awake fram
your dizzy hypnosis. Relnhardl lets out a oy of

sdgnmuéy

triumph et being back in his own body. In the box
next to your seILt and ‘8’ next to sTAMINA. Then Pick
the box mck ‘Sertich’ im the bottom rghi-hard
corner. This hoz thows you Ihe you ae ner in your
companion’: body. Unkess you mitch again, you will
ope he S011 and STAMPA Beates of pour
Write sny equipment you gain while In this body In
tha bottorn part of the Equeomment Lied, eo tel you can
track of who has ywhal. Now that he has his body
eed pou ame stuck ieide the ferble che af
Mences. Remberdl » keen io conte the divination.
Turn to 3a.

164
The Agure chuckles to Adel, and perfor a mock
bere to you then pul the plank back. The stip edges
cloner to tha ledga If you have a ruby ring, bum to
48. Cthevene, your only chance of
this dismal crag Js to jump aboard the ship. Turn to

The cresaure expires with a pieous cry; though héd-
cous, Il war as much a victim as you. Saleem Ls beast
by people collecting Ehew wineungs, po erhen the baal
ence more diddes fo one Whe you rush oul, You get
dear of che arena safely, and rebum to check out Ab
Fakik’s hut, t's empty — ther totacheroes rascal has fled
You must search elsewhere. If you have the wani
‘trail’ an your Adpenteoe Sheri, turn to ses Otherrrm,
mark a cross there afd burn to a1.

166

You prime your pialol as quickly as you can. but the
Iwo reach the crack before you can ram the Bullel
home. A wiki resonanl cry of Frome: WSerecocs
eplits the air, and the pair yonish into the cack You
nah to the edee peer down. Tro figures we
receding into the inky blackness, then they

abruptly. Fram now on you resolva, you'll
pleted premecd gf all Henes — netwery crind the danger.

Turn te 320,

167
There lg « Aaah, follawed by a airange senmailon of
Ing in n large, rlclly decorated chamber. [n front of
you, 2 atemdegtore) woman drow in shen finery
and silting on on imposing throne, speaks to you. If
you have ‘basic kal’ written on your Adonctare Shel,
turn to 3a5. If you do not, turn to 121.

rés
You find yoursrlf slaring at Relnhardt — bul now !I
really  Reanhardt in bes o=m body. You have mat
seconds to comprchend whel has happerred before a
aevord flashes In front of your or. You have surltched
bodiest in the bos marked “Companion” an your Auoer-
lury Stue!, if you don’t already haye any valucé noted.
write “¢ nexl bo oxi, and “S newl to sramina Then
tek the box marked Sevitch’ in tha Gotiom right-hand
comer. Tis bow shows thal you have switched bockes
{ha sarc and stamina scores af your companion,

169-170

Write any equipment you gain while in this body
in the bottom part of the Equipment box, so that you
can keep track of who has what. However, you have
access to any equipment carried by Reinhardt as long
as he is with you. You now know how to switch
bodies. Whenever your scalp prickles, you can change
bodies with Reinhardt or Mencius. You will not be
given this as an option, but you may choose to switch
anyway. To switch, simply add together the digits of
the paragraph you are at, then add the result to the
paragraph you are at. For example, if you were at
paragraph 156, you would add the digits (1 + 5 +6=
12), then add this to the paragraph you were at (12 +
156 = 168), and hen tum lo paragraph 169.

Now fight the second hiztwvayman.
Second HIGHWAYMAN SKILL@ STAMINA?

If you win, him Lo 349.

169

The bady of the Demon explodes in a sheel of flame,
then becomes a calumn of smoke, which shools oul
the window. Al-Bakbuk is awe-struck. Referring ta Fhe
thing you killed as ‘genie’, he cangrabulales you
warmly, suggcsling thal you accompany him to the
lavem for a round of celebralory drinks. [Ff you go
with him tum lo 73, If you do not, him to 255-

170
You live a monk-like existence whilc feeding and
training, your dog. You deade lo call the dog Kurt,

171-174

since he reminds you of a favourile uncle of yours
{nole down ‘Kurt’ on your Aduvertferre Steel). Then mark
Four crosses on your Adventure Sheel and tum lo 241.

174

With a greal elfort of will you snap your drooping
head uprighl. You musi acl quickly. Will you altack
the wizard (burn lo 84), or flee (turn lo 2893?

192

Hunger gnats al your stomach, sapping your strength:
lose y polnls [rom your stamina. If you continue to
climb the mountains, tum la @2z, [f you lum back the
way You came, tum Lo 277.

173

Examining the corpse, you find that it has jet-black skin
and pointed ears. You shiver — a sensalion of evil
which somelimes comes over you when you are in the
presence of mages assails you now, You canlinue
along Ehe tunnel until you reach a fork. If Kurt is with
you, turn to 230. [F you (and any companion you may
have) are wearing a cloak fur to 38g. Otherwise, turn
to 324.

174
With a loak of desperation in his eyes, Menclus takes

to the air, fapping his arms frantically, He flies higher
up the tower, and you charge afler him, trying to get
wilhin range in order lo strike a death blow. You
follow him afl the way up the tower, [hen through a
trapdoor on lo the raol!, From there you can only
175—t77

watch halplemly as he heads out over the sea. You
cannot follow him that way. Who knows where he
wil] end up? One thing is sure: he has excaped you.
You must start al] over again, Iracking him to the end
of this accursed world Do enough yean af life remaln
lo you to sccomplish that? Only Hen will lel,

J
You have no mhea where you are. You left the Mar-
grave’s castle In late autumn, but now lhe heat of the
pun shining from a dear sky [1 almost unbearable, The
terrain here is unfarciliar — you don'l even recogrize
the ews and shrubs. How do you propo to track

Mencust? Do yor
Podioey He river dorensirearn? Turn to afy
Light a fre? Turn to ¢@
Draw a Haly Symbab Tum to $15
Climb to the mountam top! Turn to 134@

i176
Kurt heeds you unerringly through lhe couniryaldae
willl you arrive a a sechuced! valley. He drags you lo
a cave mouth and starts barlong loudly. After a wile,
an aid mum emerges. bis head seabed im the seme
strange cfoth haa you had noabeed an several of ihe
lownalolk. Tum Lo 508.

197
Kurt In sniffing around by the ten! wilh a casual
almlessness (hal doesn’t seem yery approprinle io lhe
presence of a mage. In the len, you nolice that the

178

magician is chewing on a dried fish. That confirms it —
he is not a mage! Pulling back from the tent, you
almost bump into one of the tent-dwellers, who eyes

you critically, You murmur a hasty apology and leave.
Turn to 24s.

178
You slump down on to the hard earth, painfully aware
of your lack of food. Lose 2: point from your stamina
You sink into a fitful , Staring up at the unfamiliar
stars of this god land. Next morning, your
empty stamach is even more painful, Turn to 38g.

i7e~t ho

179

Afler some dislance the tunnel givcs oul info a huge
underground chamber, Here Ihe light is brighter, and
you are surprised lo nolice lhal there are buildings.
Che inhabitants are mosily creatures wilh jet-blick
bkins, dressed in weird clothing, whe stnit ubaut like
manarchs, Here and there you can sce olher evcatures,
including some humans, working as slaves, Near by,
anelher larger tunnel leads away from Lhe chamber.
One of the dwellers below is riding a huge beelle
lowards the iunncl Scizing the moment, you chase
after it and [cap up on to the shiny black carapace
The rider whirls, drawing a dagger, and defends
himself

DWELLER BELOW sxTut 3 $fTaiINad
As you fight. the beethe trundles along the tunnel, If

yOu have a companion, he makes if on {¢ the beelle's
back bul doesn’t help you in the Fight If you win, lum
I 34

180
‘My mission i¢ lo hunt down and deslroy Menavs
ind all ofher sorcerers.’ you declare, fixing, hls eyes
with a challenging slare.

‘What? Even lhe good ones? enquires Khusiin. raising
in eyebrow, “Ah, but ] forget, you att nat fram our
world of Titan, Perhaps where you come fram, ull the
wizards ore evil Anyway. ] hope you'll spare me long
enough for me to help you rid our Lindl of Mencus.
That, al least, you cer agree to. Turn to 61
181-182

152
Now that the Lnlensity of battle is over, you slarl io
(eel the pain caused by the venom as it gels to work
on Your muscles. ‘You are alone in an unknown wilder-
ness, You must act quickly Jf you are to stay alive. Do
you:

Try to suck the poison from lhe

wound? Tum to 22
Bathe in the river? Turn to 442
Yell for help? Tum Ia a8o

Afer mentioning the name of Al-Haddar, you casily
find his house on a quiet street near lhe west gate,
When you enquire wilhin, you meet fhe storyteller
himself, a powerful-looking man with drooping fowls,

183

You explain what you are doing In the ify and he
welcomes you warmly, offecing you the hospitality of
his house. Afler introducing you to his beautiful wife,
Dunyazad. he claps his hand three times, summoning a
setvant lo bring drinks and dainly sweetmeats. He
explains lhai, allhough he doesn’! know anything that
may be directly relevant to your search, he does have
a large slock of stories, ‘Somctimes my slories can
help a person with their difficulties,’ he explains, ‘for
none of them are imaginary — all are be — and the
fruth is a powerful thing.’

If you accep! Al-Haddar’s hospilality and remain In his
house, tum Lo 168. If you would like Lo do same more
searching elsewhere before night fatls, mole down the
number ‘158° — you may crelum to Al-Haddar's when-
ever you are given the oplion to go lo lhe place
where you have arranged lo slay. If you have the
word ‘trail’ written down, bum to aas; otherwise, ium
lo 242.

185
Dogs fed on gaalt’s meat usually hale the smell of a
sorcerer and will attack without urging. Kursk, however,
seems strangely reluctant, If you decide lo talk to the
wizard, tum lo 362. [fF you prefer to use another
method of attack choose one of the (ollowimg (you
must possess the item to use It):

A rapler Tum to 237
A, broadsword Turn to 7
A rope of human hair Turn to 36
A pistol Tum to 550
184-156

184
The stallholder quickly lowers the price lo 2 Gold
Pieces, If you buy af \he new price, cross [he mancy
off your Adventrre Sheet and lum to 216. If you can't
pay, you must find a different way of lracking Mencius.
If you make enquiries in the town, fur to 518. If you
use a Holy Symbol, (um Lo 73-

tas
What kind of bullel are you laading into your pislal?
Take the Jellers that spell out lhe type of bullct, and
substilule the numbers (ram the following charl, Then
add all the numbers together and turn lo the paragraph
with that number,

A D E—E1J]2LM N ORS ¥
5 37 4 @F 3 42 2 33 13 19 9

186
The magical energy bolt strikes you Jul] force, explod-
ing your bady into its constlluent atoms, For scant
moments consciousness remains, and you hear again
Mencius's words: ‘I curse you Lo [he end of elernity -. 2

187-189

187
‘You have no idea wherc you are, When you [eH lhe
Margrave’s castle, Ihe weather was lale autumn, cool
and wet, but here the sur burns you more fiercely
than im summer, ‘You recognize none of the terrain,
not even lhe kinds of trees and shrubs thal are growing
near by, How will you brack Mencius? Do you

Follow the river downs|ream? Tum lo 245
Draw a Holy Symbol? Turn lo 103
Climb lo lhe mountain lap? Tum to 395

Lighl a fre? Turn lo 57
188

Khasim’s comment aboul Aying remains a mystcry for
a while, but he does point out thal Mencius has been
in Kallamehr for a few hours al most, se you will
arrive hard on the villain’s heels (nole down ‘early’ on
your Adventure Sheet) Alter you have rested a while
longer, Khasitn picks up the caypel and escorls you out
of the cave inlo the valley. If you have a shackles key,
tum to 56; oihenvise, lum lo 227.

186
Back af the tavern, you meet ihe same fellow you
encountered [he previous lime; he seems lo be some-
thing of a regular. Once again he is happy to buy a
drink or lwo for you. Tum to 55.

tg0n193

190
The Skeletons fall back, Jeaving a path for you la lhe
stairs. They stand, grinning sowlessly back at you as
you make your way belyween them From the chamber
above, a mocking voice walts down, ‘Sa, you've had
the good manners lo bring my book back lo met
Tum to 3¢2,

191
The pain is intense, but you manage lo cleanse your
body of some of the poison, Lose z furlher points
from your stamina, !f you are slill alive. you are very
weak. Turn lo a42.

1g2

Erase the lick from the Switch’ box on your Adventure
Shwet. Reinhardt is furious at having been Licked into
swilehing back inlo Mencius’s body, and he leaps at

you.

‘Beware! You! upset the carpet!’ aies Khasim. but his
cal] is unheeded, If you have Kurt with you, tum fo
235. If you hayen'l, turn fo 21.

194
You live in a dirty room, somewhat envious of your

dog's regular diel of goat meal. You name your dog
Kurt (note him down on your Adventure Sheet) afler
your maternal uncle, whom he resembles. Over the

few 7 course of the week you explore the town a little,
ae learning some more about these strange people (note
down ‘basic kal’ on your Adventure Sheet if it is not

194-196

there already}. If you wish to do some shopping for
etearial supplies during tha wintk, tum to 248, Otter:
wrine, bam bo yang

iene: tnt with v friendly ame ec hm face and an
easy tone im his voke. Tt will be my pleasure to
extinguish your soul utterly and it will be especially

So saying, he hands you bor. Your scalp prickles as
you lnagane whal may be within H you have » Book
of Crafl, lum to 53: otherwise, tan to 379.

£93
It's camer to desornd than to ascenel, but you have io
take care not to slip, Still, after a short time you are
back at the foot of the mountain, following the river
downstream If you have a ruby ring tum to a59.
Otherwise, tum to 245.

196
Tha ald man continues glancing sbaut nervously unt!

tep~tes

you are safely back In town. Before parting from you,
ta muggeate thal you make for Kallencho, the biggest

up his evil schemes. Tarn to 348.

97

along an ornate corridor, which gives on to a courtyard
with a particularly beautiful omamental pool and foun:
lain. A wooden block stands in the middle of the
cmutyard, and you
recognize the meaning of
the nick marks om a But i is aim var im you
weakened ataite yom ae mo match fo the bulky
caste. You ae woorrueuly poohed doar an
to the block and an wgly snan wreckage a bape. carved
teeord approsctess The rest af darkness.

194
How do you plan fo irack the evizacd? Will your

Draw a Haly Symbol? Turn to 78
Make enquiries in the torn? Tum to 338
Train a dog? Tun lo 33
199-200

199

You wander through the streets, amazed at ihe number
of people bustling around. As you penetrale deeper
into the cily, getting closer to the sea cIllf, you are
frequently accosted by hawkers pressing their wares
an you and by beggars trying to part you from your
loose change. Brushing them aside, you enter a large
market square, over which broods an imposing tower,
clinging to the very edge of the cliff. You slare up at
it. is it your imagination, or does some malevolent
presence return your gaze from one of the upper
windows? You have faced more formidable situations,
however, so you push through the marketplace and
ascend the steps leading up fo the tower’s brass-shud-
ded door. Opening the door, you find yourself Jn [he
great hall. There is not a soul in sight, then a voice
behind you calls your mame. Check your Asocritre
Sheel. If you have a wizard’s pouch, tum to 337,
Otherwise, Lum bo 138.

You kick the headless body down the slope, and
throw the head alter it. It doesn’t quile reach the river,
so you scramble down lhe slope. Near the bottom,

aor~-203

you slip and byis! your fool painfully. Stepping care-
fully, you cover lhe final metres and posh Mencius
inlo the fast-lowing stream He Js carried fifteen
mires, then becomes tangled under a stray branch, As
you limp along the bank, you nolice something
strange: Mencius’s body has not swelled up, despite
being tmmersed in water. Your ankle hurts, so you
check it out. Strangely, there is a scat running along
the side of your foot. You don’t remember ever being
injured there ... but you do remember the Margrave's
foolish young son culling his foot open while playing
with his rapier. That would explain the rapier and red
clothes! Somehow you have switched bodies with
Reinhard!) That means Remhardt must have ended up
in your body ... or Jn Mencius’s! If the lalter is true,
then the mos! evil sorcerer of them al] [s now free,
and Js roaming this country in the body of his great-
est foe! You claw your way back up the slope and
rest for a few hours. Before nightfall you check your

possessions, Turn Lo 75.

201

When you are halfway slong the plank, the Aying
ship’s colourful captain gives lt a sharp twist, cackling
madly as you tumble off it. With the mounlainside
rushing past you ever faster and a painful pressure
building in your lungs, you can only awail a sudden
and fina] impact with the ground... Turn to 2a4.

202
With a final blast of energy Mencius demolishes his
opponent. But he is clearly weakened by the effort - his
195-104

first hought is of escape. With a look of desperation in
his eyes, Mencius takes to the atc, flapping his arms
frantically. He flies higher up the lower, and you charge
alter him. trying to wet wilhin range In order fo slrike a
death blow, You follow him all the way up the lower,
then through a irapdoor on to lhe rook. From there you
can only watch helplessly as he heads out over the sea.
You cannot follow hira Lhal way. Who knows where he
vill end up? One thing is sure: he has escaped you You
must sar! all over again. tracking him to the end of this
accursed world, Do cnough years of life remain to you
ia accomplish that? Only time will tell,

205
You lake the rope off the mage cautiously, keeping
your eyes on him but avoiding his gaze. He doesn't
Iry anything, slanding slill and calm as you back
away. He spreads his arms slowly and smiles. Tum
Io 253,

204
There is shouting from outside the room, lhen some
men rush in, They separate you from the pickpocket

205-106

and drag you out of the room. You have no idea as to
the lhief’s ale, but you are hustled to lhe lown gate
and forcibly ejected. You are oul in the wilds once
more, A road strelches [rom the town, but you can't
be sure where it leads. If you follaw the road. turn to
26, Jf you want to climb a hill to get a belter view of
the land, turn to 25.

205

You wander along a bustling thoroughfare, unsure
where to slart your search, wondcring where you
might find Reinhardt, Being a lord himself, and an
arrogant one al thal. he may well try to contact the
ruler of this city; so you slari looking far a caslle or a
lord’s mansion. You accost a few city [olk. drawing
curious stares bui little concrete help, Finally, however,
from a vanlage point near the sea cliff, you catch sight
of a lower, further along the cliffs. Could that be the
place? You walk along the road towards the tower,
then enter a Jarge marketplace, full of traders of every
description, You push through the crowds towards the
tower — and arrive at the foot of a flight of steps, If
you have a Book of Craft, tum to 98. Otherwise, turn
lo 13.

206
By repeatedly pointing at your mouth, you manage to
convey your hunger and lhe villagers respond by
offering you some food. Their honey cakes and light
wine are no banquet, but they laste Jar betler than the
last oad you had — at Mechtmer’s funeral. hile
ealing. you Iry to explaln to the villagers that you are
307

looking for Mencius, bul they cannot comprehend
you, Finally one of them has an ides, Aller your meal,
he feads you out of lhe village and along « mountain
palh, In a sheltered valley a plume of amakc emerges
Jrom a hole in the rock: below il a cave mouth yawnn,
The villager Jeads you inle the cave and calla cul.
After a while a light appears and an old man bearing 4
Lorch approaches. He is wearing loose robes ard for
some rearon has a doth wra round his haad Ha
recognizes the villager ane] the two of lem talk fora
while, Finally the old man ars into [he recesecs
of the cave returning with a book He diemesses [he
villager then. after setting he lorch in a wall sconce,
he Gaps Haroweh toe peered of the book Fhen he finds
begins lo read ruttering and gesturing

bed He & a sorcerer, and he 6 casting
lad of spell! H yom attack immediaicly, tum lo
O21 Mf you wat lo see what happera. turn to 344

aor
‘Mencus is dead.” you protest. ‘I dispourd of his

corpse.

‘But he had swilched bodies with his companion os a
side-effect of entering this bubble of reallly.’ [t feels an
if he has punched you in the stomach, Menclus |e atill

208-4265

alive! And Reinhardt, the impetuous young lord who
freed the wizard, has paid for his foolishness with his
life. "By the way, you have something of mine. I'll
have it back if you don’t mind too much! your host
anys, clicking lis Angers. The ruby ring fleats up into
(he alr and over to his hand (cross il off your Adoenlure
Sheet). Turn ta 368

208

You gaze deeply into Weenoan’s eyes. and concentrate
on wikching bodies. There is a period of disonend abion.
then you find yoursell staring al the body you huve
jum vecded. Mencus's ies cul in a contemetuous
anal, He draws a sword and cosually hacks down a
Patierhy. Too late you understand hs plan As horrified
ecremrns arise frown all sides he fixes your cyes with an
ana vowdabhe stare, using his magical powers to force
the body meitch You find yourself standing wath a
bloody gerard in your hand surromnded by a trundred
hostile witneue Mencus seems Hred by the exertion
of forcing Ihe body swap, but he manages a cheery
weve an you are seized by Ryenty hands and dragged
off. At the palace, you art bied before Kallanehr's
fuler, Auiah Albucin, After hearing the facts of the case.
ahr wastes no Lime In passing sentence. Turn to 1g7.

209
Since you were not using weapons, you both recover
4 points of stamina for every 3 points [ost in the
fight (if you lost z points, you recover 1 pointh,
Reinhard! Is dazecL but he should do as you say — for
the moment at leaal, Turn to 4.
papa fl!"
a 6

210-315

210

Your companion notices the claw hanging from your
belt, and he seems rather surprised. He takes it from
you, saying ‘Shaues’ cepealedly, and shows il Lo the
other drinkers, Soon you are surrounded by an admir-
ing crowd, all jabbering incomprehensibly. UnJortu-
nately one of them, a vidous-looking fellow with
bulging muscles and foul breath, takes the opportunity
to challenge you to a fighL.

MUSCULAR BRUISER SKILL 6 STAMINA 9

If you reduce the bruiser to 1 point of stTAmINA, Lum
lo 137.

212i
You can'l quite follow what it Js lhe men are dermand-
ing, but you do calch the number 5 and what you are
fairly sure és the local word for ‘gold pieces’. One man’s
oulslrelched hand makes \he meaning clear. [f you pay
the 5 Gold Pieces, cross them off your Adventure Sheet
and lum to 8o, If you refuse lo pay, bum Fo 39¢-

ZI2
Just as you star to suck at Lhe poison. s spasm of pain
racks your beady. You iry to spit aul the venom but
swallow involuntarily. Your end is swift, Your journey
finishes here.

214
‘lt doesn’t matter,’ ‘Reinhard!’ spits, a new edge appear-
ing in his voice. ‘t shall have my revenge anyway.’ Ale
staris to chanl and gesture al you, Tum lo 305.
Surry ay Apguop © Bumpen ur 2 seed mod pw Ane
Ap UO GAYS anyewory unod uD UMOp OU) wate
PUT @ pod nod os yume ry © YOM 2] 0] By
pays See! wie pret aoe peso & pay nO)

gtr

‘BRE 0] LUN] pue z>01 jo sad ¥ 0) dn YR5
"Yy Busty 4207 and oj + ppe Arus nod 3y3]eq WH yp BEN
NOX )] "ONG sutMapyY sNOd UO BIC PADES ayy @Jay
‘pray B]| Ange imop a ‘wsFl>D an UALOp sdoz}
PAgg 24] "awoFIy 0} pUtATE AUOSIME BY spuRWWos
put nod oO} @nw 3)4) ayuziesd am ayy muni
dumyjhae yo woyed # yy poy}ecoep Ap} URN ‘gqno
poy Ayy@nu © sue sy) wo Booey siradkdeo) p a
Pon AH pains yf pay Coy PED AY] Unop
Jorg Bra UY ‘alow 20uD deog pet my TA
a ney el Pee Pee A ‘PRY. ie
Ay] QOpeg Ak0} bag pu eriioutS Us pure & 20
Aur wr woniy prices (mg ary © pea oupy Bn ©
Vado syqds puna oy) use Bampunoeos © jj mommy
sony Rpry ayy adeps uy aqo2 27 uo sd ay , thew
“pury anod Aodas ysnus ) ou pay j(rexeud Apaums ym
Pood eqoa Fa YIM, SuEPTS ay jposicid aq YerELY,
"ROA WO BQO! F\f] HH] BY UAYyAL SLPaq JapEPA BY]

GrT

“Sge op une {pang
umuapYy mak uo 434 KPEYs By) UMOP 270U) j]Ry
“LALOP WMO IY [hogs pySroag ay ipats Aq pA RU
my eafue wag pey my — [nd — Lcness
SECS 20] WEP Hy Woe) SER O27) 0] Pa Py
my rey Ag yy pay oy pacadas am pur Aun spy

gitar

sap no, “aera todoud « Sep O32 Fre OO) Pale UN
oy Adfkundy Oc) Sur na) Pasa Aipeq ost ye] ram

pure pyo Apap )OU etm pope ay Apo Pay ay) JE
wriyeal HOA @]F[ OO] Peep a {PyUR YY “Boma won

PUB] Ssuesys sn4y JO sueys sey UNEpUN 94) FP
dn Surseys “dasps 03 po Yup MOA -WNINVEE INOA WO)
jujod © aso] “yorusoys unod uy pjor Buyumed 949 IG
0} POO} OU st JzaY) ‘SAaTeqduD JO yous wH ay) HaNdETOS
ay pum ‘sad UPD ody JY] Wary jay MOA "URE Udaq «ey
ay ‘JaAamoy “Moy [se] ayy JOY Payrem nod ow ayquins
1] Sungou auop pry jpryuey uN Suo] # 104

grt

‘Ft ay
UY SU) ge 0} Ly) wo exaad ap (og et 03 WUI)}
Uaeo] ayy 07 WUT on Anu mide [Sore ao ingens)
irs Fao Aay mapper © aary nod go £391 Mad Oj TF

Sun Amads -kayeudjap aqoys Fy pul EL pro] Ft ay]
Sif

"scp mod jO )G94 FY) 40} AMY YeUI
UM saj[ JsnUr NO), “LOreE] nod uy pale) BABY MOA
‘DaaMOL{ ‘BYU S.aneBrejy ayy Oy PRUIMJRT aamy AoA
MOLWOS “s00y ayy Lapuns yes Y "|/a9 & LU) AE NOL
"oypeage|jem © ur sung 42104 Suan y punosd pyos
Wo WYBHE 433) INoA sepyuey Ajuesvajdun ue
gM Way “Wred ou sy assy) MOU pur SLOT s} Sunes
jO vogesuas ay] “ssaunpEp aynjorge Aq paoeydas s uns

me j0 fg Sapa AH eo payee pws 8 a”
=

gic—tit
219

at you intently, but you pay him no attention and
press on. If you wish to start searching for Mencius
straight away, tum lo 198. If you prefer to spend time
getting used to these people's ways, tum to 189 if you
have already been to the tavern or to 293 if you
haven't.

219
Examining the wound, you can see the dull gleam of
the silver bullet, lodged in Mencius’s gut. $Vithoul
proper lools, you')l just have lo use your fingers! As
you probe into the cavity, Mencius’s body jerks in
spasms of unconscious pain. As quickly as you can,
you get a grip on the bullet with your thumb and
finger and ease it out. Pocketing the blood-stained
silver bullet (note it down on your Equipment List),
you rip up Mencius’s robe lo make a wad of cloth. It's

asa-ast

a crude way to bandage a wound but, lied in place, it

seems to work.

Mencius soon comes round, and stares up at you.
bleary-eyed. Whal sorcery is this?” he demands. “You
look cxacily like me!’ His eyes contain none of lhe
infernal malice you are used to, only bewilderment.
The Lrath hits you like a charging bison — Mencius has
swilched bodies! The poor wretch before you is really
Reinhardt, whose bady you now inhahil. You tell him
whal has happened, and he begs you to set things
tight, Tam to 67.

220
Al the far end of ihe bay is a promontory. The slope
is Tot very sleep, so you scale if, geHing a good view
of the coastline for several kilometres. The only dislinc-
tive feature is the city which you can see at the limit
of your Vision.

You spend another night in the open, en raule to lhe
city; but this time the gentle lapping of the waves lulls
you lo sleep, and you are undislurbed. To maintain
your STAMINA you must consume 1 Provision (cross it
off your Adventure Sheet}, [f you don’t have any Provi-
sions, you must Jesc 4 points from your stamina.
Next day you enter the cil, Turn Io 100.

aaL
What impulse led you fo free the man? You are a
magehunler, after all swom enemy of al] sorcerers.
Still, there is something. well, different about this one.
He says a Jew words to you in a strange, gullural
fongue. You reply with your name, and ask him for
TUE pop AOA fh YOR) aR Ee Ay OA] aX

Uy ay 67 °F VO jaa 0] Vay STP] Pur Pus 24)

uO > oy) ee] wes uaa sunpduios |pieyuay
itt

Yltap ‘aouejues sy) ‘Aypn? punoy sue nos
‘PURSApUN 7NES NOA aSwnSue e Ul pesmioe Japinw
JO} [aL] Pueye nod ‘nod Oy Aupusddey si jeym jo azeme
Ajaeq “Bupying aie) # oy Jjo noOA Sep pure sAlue
Spiend suo woos ‘Su|pucsiopunsiw ay) dn seap 04
JjQe aq yA aucewioe yey) Buidoy ‘A;mpaored Jepuazns
nod os 'yyBy 0} Way) jo Aurur 00] ave aay) “ULAC}
ayy jo ino BER JayjOue aya ‘OA punouns pur
bucdosas GUA wey) JO jemnag WO] UMAR] ayy wo
dsre3 ew amyl “Pry? thy OJ proms INDA VGuN_ NOL

gtt

eck oy wary “day 07 AQnmpoddo sng aqry nod
jj “TF Oy Wp "1AENF 0} AcyE MOA BW UMOFA IY Lod
ppesy Apeuye pancusyy jeuy nOA UO SUMED | pUF
"sSwuysayordd jeoiByw uy aauyjo yoes ye Aeme durznty
PRs OM] ayy ‘Apo smynucry-oopye Ue UW parucss
-Ud PUE aediod s1y wor; padezsa Mayswas ‘snpuayy
aq O] JtyRoy MoU MOA OuM ‘Aaa INDA je yee
& Bursts U! Ay OU sa)sem ay soUns ‘papremias aq 0}
ft AQieozauss unoA mwaae 3) ‘laypes pareds nod puezym
2) EPUTYS YITUM JO jsphu au) en ‘sreadde ayouss ardinid
jO prop © pur ‘UmEy Ff au9yy Ua] “(eeS sunjuzomy
Mok jo vay pjoF »y soon) uny Sampeysp Ajareq
‘Apsara yO senunoq pure umy samuyt | “Wisuiodds
mo 2 wo> 3y) fu mod asgnduo wpps & up

Str

izt-Sz14

‘cf

0) UM] “PAZ Ay JUMPS 0) woo au uoMoye

sok wry noA pur sosced tsaitiip ayy any © ITY
tec

"gt Op UM] ‘Apog ssmmuay ul Que Nod — mou 31 pg
*KOg #4) GIP OU Sf atal)) | ‘Apod S,)PHeQuIey Ul ed
MOU BI NOA — Jf a8Gls “Jaays WHY ANOA va rag
Apyins, ayy UL Yl) & st alauy 3) “dems Apog ay jo uor
“CUSNOSIP oj [>2] PUL PUEYUIEY YY EBAe YOO] NOT

cee

‘EOE 04 LUN} ‘75/0
‘8 0] UITY “UMOp UayUs 4Tayes BOM ayy aAPY TOA
f] ‘Om3 ay) Oo wAUOTTS ay) 51 INKY yeyy SNOIAGD
CEnOIeg WOOS FPO peymn gy ayideey] ‘12A0) Jy]
9) UsySry NOA ipEy Woy [anp foNBew Pun papeaquo
Ju Gad] a UR “ue sry yo pods © yer 0} Syms
Apripounn ‘Aaje, my Ul palayumoouws mod prez
2g se azdooas nod woym Uru pro ay] ‘peyynaur
-usdo ‘sarrjs pue duguey> my sdoy inpuayy sueadde
Ajvappos yey yop © Suueaa, WWW pio ue pue Ray ayy
WOIy UOT sMO]IG syotUs a)dund jo pnoj> # uayy “[ads
fy uf sasned Ayazeg snjouajy doys v 0} Simos aoyaq
Aem ay © Suyjou pur yao] ayy ye Burpusy ‘snausyy
KPremoj se ay] YBNowyy Az) suds “Kop porn ayy

TTte

Tgt oj um) “ups Buxjueys sueq
pue sted ay) sary ‘do pi mpd ay puodsa oj pry not
Va, 700g 27 Oo; sptod uay) “lapuauns jo amor
tu sy din sppoy apy WErunys pent ay pq sey

Prec—tre

428

Khasim a fitde, you won'l be able to gel anytvhere.
Finally you are all an the carpet, silling down, With
barely a jolt the carpel Jlaals up into the alr, Reinhardt
lels out a shriek of fear but, wilhout giving him p
chance to speak, Khasim says, ‘To Kallamehrl’ and you
shool off with the specd of a diving falcon, the air
buffeting your face and making your scalp prickle. Tum

lo 93,

‘With his dying blow, the Genie Prince hurled his
vanguisher out of the window of the tower, Before he
landed on the soll sand, Al-Ra'ad Al-Kasif with a
piteous wall expired, and was seen no more in this
world, His killer, meanwhile, lurmed back lowards the
tower, bul he found his way blocked by three oppo-
nenls: a venomous, hissing snake, a snarling mountain
lion, and a flullering raven. A voice sounded fram
behind the brasy-studded door of the lower, “You
musl fight the most dangerous of these three if you

aag-240

wilkh Lo enler the tower.”" Which of the three wil] you
choose?

The raven? Turn lo 354
The lion? Tum lo 115
The snake? Turn to 254

a29

You have walked for just a few hundred metres when
you notice a eae mouth in ihe mountainside, wel)
concealed on eilher side with cocks. No sooner have
YOu spolled it than oul of il scullles a huge scorpion,
ile Meire-long carapace gleaming in the sunshine, You
have beard of such crestures, Gul never imew they
could grove ta such a size.

GIANT SCORPION Sxl 8 STAMINA &

In every Atlack Roum the Scorpion may allack Reice,
The first atlack is with ils claws; conduct the battle as
rotmal. The second atack is wilh ils ding. Compare
Atlack Strengths as normal. If your Allack Strength is
higher, vou have not wounded the Scorpion, merely
purried its sting. lf its Attack Strength is higher, you
low no STawina yet, bul nole down ihat you have
heen stung. [F you fail lo defeat Ihe Scorpion within 4
fours after being stung. you will die. [F you defeat
the Giant Scorpion, tum to 63,

130

Kurt, who had previously sniffed suspiciously at the
dead Dweller Below, now growls wamingly al the
lefl-hand passage. Glad of his help, you creep warily
olen the right-hand tunnel. Turn to 179.
a5l—I¥zz

a31
Skirling the fown walls and keeping oul of sight of the
guards on ihe gale, you conlinue on your way. The
sun's glare slill punishes you, and your breathing is
now coming hard — the air feels thick and coarse in
your lungs, You are concentrating so hard on simply
remaining conscious that you are caught by surprise
when lhe attack comes. A huge, shaggy shape with
legs like lree-trunks and lidlesa eyes like waler-filled
saucers rears up in front of you and swals you to ihe
ground with 4 single sweep of its razor-sharp daw.
Losé 2 point of STAMINA.

SHAGGY SHAMBLER SKILL STAMINA 14

You may escape the Shambler iJ you slruggle lo your
feet and flee straight away (turn Eo 145) Otherwise,
you must fight, If you win, lum to 334.

azz

Tou accost a Jew townspeople, lrying to get your
meaning across. The firs! three don’t even Lry Io listen
to you bul hurry off in disgusl. The next one listens
bul finally gives wp, unable to understand You by
your bes| with the nexl, poinling al yoursefl, since
you realize Lhat Reinhardt Jooks far more like you than
any of these silk-swathed folk. The slranger is a wiry.
sharp-nosed individual who seems kcen to try io heip;
in fact, he ushers you into a nearby building, out of
lhe bustling street. When you try to explain again by
pointing al yourself, the man holds an object up in
Front of you. If you have a Book of Cra, tum to 385.
Othenvise. lum lo 108,

—— ——————— — _

433-444

433

Further enquiry reveals thal Saba is nol the only
foreigner matching Mendus's currenl description fo
have atrived recently In Kallamehr. A street urchin
tells you about a strange-looking person wha same-
haw managed to obtain an audience with the city’s
ruler, Asiah Albudur; shorily aflerwards, this person
was granted permission to live in the Rangor Tower,
overlooking the market — a building which has stayed
empty since the death of the city’s previous ruler.
Mark a cross on your Adventure Sheet. If you go
straight to Rangor Tower, lum to 31a. Otherwise, you
may go le the bazaar to check on Saba (tum lo 364}
or choose another option (lun to 242).

234
After a few minutes the quaking subsides. Frighlened
funeral guesls emerge cauHously from their hiding

a34-256

places, Guards aye dashing about in al) directions, and
a single guesHon Js on everyone's lips: ‘Where is
Reinhardt?® The alarm is raised A guard mashes Ln to
say that the new Margrave was last seen in the
dungeons. Fearing the worsk you lead a squad of
guards to Mencius’s cell. Sure enough, there is na sign
of the wizard A huge crack sunders the floor of his
cell, and an unconscious guard lies, sprawled near the
door, When he comes to, lhe guard explains what
happened, The new Margrave was lalking with the
wizard, who seemed lo be promising him something.
Then Reinhardt untied the rope round Mencius's wrists
and unlocked his shackles. The wizard shouted out
some wards, and ihe castle started to shake. Mencius
spun around, and green smoke filled the air. The Jast
thing the guard remembers is the Aoor splitting open
and lhe hyo men disappearing. Tum fo 320,

235
Your loyal hound jumps forward lo prolecl you,
snarling al Reinhardt then worrying at his arm Rein-
hardt, coward thai he Is, shrinks away Jrom the dog in
(car, his anger quickly evaporating.

‘Have patience, Khasim urges him "You will be back
in your own body soon enough.’ Tum to 93.

até
“You didn't have fo kill him! Reinhardt pipes up. ‘He
saved my life.’
‘Killlng mages is my job,” you remind him grimly.
Tum lo 594

OE — ——

a57-a40

337

Flimsy though it is, the rapier can stl] impale as
effectively as any sword. Your tiger-swilt lhrusl
catches the wizard in the ches! and, to your surprise,
not only pierces his skin, but runs him through! His
hands Aap vainly at ihe sword, but he is dead. and he
knows it. His body seems to fold up as it collapses.
You retrieve the rapier. If you have a Shauea Scar, turn
fo 125. Otherwise, lum to 364.

a38
You check an Reinhardt, staring deep into fear-stricken
eyes. For a moment you think you have fallen off the
carpet, then you remember the unpleasant sensation of
the body switch, If the ‘Switch’ box on your Adventure
Sheel is ticked, turn lo 192. But if it is not ticked, turn
to 407,

359
The downish figure walks over to you. You still can't
make out his face, just a pair of mischievous, glinting
eyes. He says a few words to you in a language
you don’t understand, then clicks his fingers, Turn to

400.

40
You haven’t gone more than len melres when you

hear sounds coming from the tunnel ahead, There
must be more Dwellers Below on their way! [f you
hide In Lhe alcove in order to ambush them, tum to 36.
[f you bum around and hurry back down the tunnel.
lurn to 170.

a4

241

if you have three crosses macked on your Adveulure
Sheel and do nol have the word ‘home’ wrillen Lhere,
cross off the word ‘early’, if you haye it, and lum lo
ig4. If you have the word ‘fame’ underlined on the
Sheei, iurn to 433. 1 you have the word ’fame’ bul ill is
not underlined, underline it now. Wi you have Ave or
more crosses on your Adventure Sheel, write down the
word ‘fame’ if il is nol there already, Otherwlse you
should choose which of the following. actions you
wish to lake. Will you:

Approach the authorities Grou must

have ‘kal'}? Turn to 47
Make enquiries ard hynl for clues...
-. IE you have ‘kal? Tum ta 74
... if you have ‘basic kal? Turn to 145
... otherwise? Tur fo 6

Look for a storyteller (you must
have ‘kal’ or ‘basic kal’?

Use magehunting methods?

Go lo the markel?

If you have somewhere lo slay, you may tum to thal
paragraph Or, U you know where Mencius is, you
may go there now if you wislt.

Tum to 344
Tum lo 373
Tum to a67

142-145

243

The parched land through which you are trudging
resembles nowhere you've seen before. Your home
was a cool haven of majestic forests, mountains and
pastures and, compared to that, this place is hell. If it
weren't for the cool water of the nearby river, you feel
sure you would die of heat prostration. After several
hours, you see smoke rising into the sky from some-
where ahead. Taking advantage of what little cover
the terrain affords, you creep up toa small village. The
buildings seem to be made of baked mud, and their
inhabitants are wearing strange clothes — but they are
reassuringly human, and they seem peaceful enough.
You enter the village, spreading your arms wide and
asking for help, The villagers stare at you in amaze-
ment, then slart lo jabber in a language you have
never heard before. Turn to 206,

243

A crackling tongue of lightning licks along your sword
blade, There's a pop from the wizard’s pouch, a sharp
pain, and the unpleasant smell of singed flesh, Lose 2
point from your stamINA. If you have reduced the
Scintillating Globe to zero STAMINA points, furn to
215: otherwise, return to 286 and continue the fight.

244-245

a1 .
You spend a restful night in Al-Haddar's house, Your
STAMINA Js reslorcd Lo its full value (remember, you
cannot recover points lost by passing lhrough the
magic portal), Next moming you awaken fale and
realize that it is high time for you lo resume your
search, If you know where to fo, tum to the appropri-
ale paragraph Otherrvise, if you have the word ‘trail’
on your Adventure Sheel, lun lo aos. If you haven't,
mark two crosses, then tum Io 3.47.

245
As you follow the river, your mind starts trying fo
calch up with what has happened Io you, You nolice
that even the air smells unusual, and the clamminess of
your skin is unnerving. Mencus’s spel] has obviously
propelled you far from lhe Maregrave’s domain, You
(ry to remember everything you know aboul the far-
flung reaches of fhe world. Unfortunately, geography
was never your strong sult. Beyond some lurid tales of
the hol southlands, where men’s skin is bright red and
the earth is yellow, you are at a loss. If you have a
Book of Craft, tum lo 110, Othenvise, tum to 18.

246-2458

ahi Me With another flash the Genie reappears and. seconds

ay es SS pis later, AJ-Bakbuk is attired in finery fit for a king and

y TAN his home js filled wilh jewellery and caspels of the

} / most exquisite quality, Add 1 to your LUCE score,

Now, will you summon the Conic to lake you lo

Reinhard (tum lo 342}, or summon lhe Genie to take
you ko Kallamehr (lum to 147%?

.

=> -
EC

347

To kill him, you will have to wet your sword with his
blood and strike his head from his bady, Keeping your
eyes on the stunned maye, you slide your sword
along the door to the puddle of blaod which dipped
fom Mencus’s wound. Then you tring the sword
back, preparmg to make a final ‘vting, Al the last
manent, Mencus's eyes snap open, Your sword curves
around. Menctus shoots straighl up in the air, letting
oul the cry of the damned as your Wade culs inlo his
foot, Bul he is stil] alive, and his power has grown
beyond anything you could have Imagined. Summon-

| i R ing an enarimous ball of tiny, withing flames, he rains
| "}) destruction down upon you, Your adventure ends
+

here,

a48
The market contains many things which may be of use
to you, However, prices here are outrageous, You may
buy items ory if you have enqgugh money — if you
do, cross it off your Adveature Shirt, If you have sone
jewellery, you may use it lo buy any wy arlicle, Cross
NW off your Adaenture Sheet Ff you use il in this way.

a

AAs

You may buy more than one of any idem if you wish.
You may also buy things and give lhem fo a compan-
ion, if you have one, Ten Silver Pieces (sp) are worlh
one Gold Piece (gp).

Candles, 14 isp
Cloak. fine silk 18gp
Clothing, undyed 227
Dagaer agp
Gloves, leather 48P
Lanlerm 3BP
Mirror, small 55p
Provisions (each meal} 5sp
Rope, hemp, 1c metres 78P

Sword (heavy, wide and curved) 4ogp

if you have a crystal goblet. you can offer it in
exchange for one item. If you do this, turn to 272.
Once you have made your purchases, if you have
‘Kurt’ written down on your Adventure Sheet, turn to
304. If you have a ruby ring, tum lo 230, Otherwise,
continue your search by buming lo 198-

249

You can take the highwayman’s horse, [f Reinhardt is
dead, you can retrieve all the possessions from his
body (in addition, you can find the key from Mencius’s
shackles — note the shackles key on your Adventure
Shel), Otherwise, he loo can take a horse. On the
badies of ihe highwaymen you find 47 gold pieces.
Wilh (he help of the horses you make good time

along the road. A few hours after your encounter, you

zst-a51

amiye af the coastal city of Kallamehr, passing through
an imposing gate. Turn Io 400,

2ho
I's hard work climbing up lhe mountainside in the
punishing heat of lhe stin, bul eventually you make it,
This hill is prominent and, despile the heat haze, you
can see for many kilometres, Your eyes Jollow the
silver ribbon of ihe river at whose banks you arrived.
(lis joined by severa] mountain streams and, some
way off, id passes Ehrough a lawn. You can’t make out
people at this dislance, bul there are definitely build-
ings of some kind. On the distant horizon a glimmer
belokens the sea, or perhaps a mighiy river or lake. As
your eye follows it around you cealize that it must be
the sea. You can make oul a dark area there which
may be a cily. Tuming around further, you look dawn
al a range of Jow hills. Only a few kilometres distant,
you see a lhin plunve of smoke. Do you:

Climb back down io ihe civer and

follow it downslream? Tum to 1g5
Head for the coasi and the city? Turn to 374
Make your way towards the plume

of smoke? Turn to 56

aSL
You are sick with vertigo, gripped firmly in ils claws.
Alter flying for some minules, you observe another
fying <crealure approaching rapidly. As il nears, you
see (hat il is a Aying serpent. wilh a body of iridescent
scales, borne aloft by wings of gauzy membrane.
A358

Cheasly. i lg the enemy of the bird carrying you, amd it
swoops to atkack,

SEILL STAMINA
BIRDof PRODIGIOUS SIZE 7 (current) °
WINGED SERPENT 5 9

Wark oul Ube battle between the two creatures. Hew-
ever, the bird's grip on you loasens sufficiently for
you to be able to altack one or the other cach round,
if you wish. Roll for your own Attack Strength. If it ts
higher than your s pas Ret

i

areal coreeal the bolicrwsrg, table:
Rent 38 Eat
30 No effect.
. 4-5. A tray bhow sirikes you — ber 1 pound
| from your STAMINA.
| @ = The bird lets go of you — tum Io 60
If the bled hoses the fight, turn to 60. Mf the serpent
lases the fight, turn to 120.
35a
The Genie of the Ring appears before you. At your
command, produces for you of the items

i i

Ez
“
rl
|

3
ez*
af
! rt
o
ag

Bg
it
sé
i

e8
p

é

5

2
EY
oh
p

$i
e732

u
a3

TEE
:
a :

k
§

J
it

3
Pe

q
f
:

a glass (note down ‘Al-Bakbuk’s glass’ on your Adoen-
ture Sheet) and advises you, if you are ever in the city
ef Kallamehr. to seek out his brother, the atorytallar
Al-Haddar. Now will you:

Ge shopping? Turn to a4@
Try to pick up the brad? Turn (@ 130
Head for tha city of Kallamehr? Turn ta 348

256-257

256

You mention the name of AJ-Fakik to several passers-
by and, having obtained directions from an old woman,
you finally arrive at a ramshackle hut In the docks
cegion. This is hardly the salest district you have ever
visited, nor docs Al-Fakik’s dwelling inspire much
confidence. There’s no door, so you push aside the
drape in lhe entrance aml peer In. Your eyes take a
short while Lo accuslom themselves to the darkness.
When they do, you find your gaze returned by some-
onc with a fal face and hair sticking out al improbable
angles.

Whal do you want, then? a peremptory voice de-
mands, Will you:

Tell Al-Fakik his brother sent you? Tum to 213
Tell hita aboul your search? Tum to 83
Ask him for a stery? Tum lo 402

257
Green smoke seeps from the ground. You stari to spin,

bul somehow your eyes remain focused on the ground
al your feet. The sione splits open; a cack yawns
before you. You move towards il and fal] headlong
into darkness. Seconds pass and lengihen Lalo minules.
Time has no meaning in this blackness,

Then light bursts upon your eyes, You are standing on
4 mountain ledge. You Jeel weary, unnaturally tired.
The weight of years seems lo have seilled on your
shoulders. You have been aged ten years by sorcery
(reduce your Iwitia! sent by 2 and your inilin/

358-259

STAMINA by 4). Lying on the ledge before you is the
crumpled body of Mencius. Dead eyes stare up af you
from a head on which the hair is streaked with grey-
Blood oozes from a savage wound in his stomach,
There is no sign of Reinhardt, but near the body you
find a key — the key to Mencius’s shackles (add it to
your Equipment List}. Before you search for him you
must dispose of the mage’s body. Do you:

Bury it? Tum lo 146
Burn it? Tum to 4
Throw il in the river? Tum fo 358

a8

Having disposed of the Skulker, you spend a precious
moment ridding him of his large cloak (note it down
on your Adventure Shee), before setting off after the
other two. Unfortunately it's dark, and you lost sight
of them while still embroiled In the wader sh dash
around, trying to fd some sign of them, bul in vain.
Finally you sink lo the ground, exhausted. and drift
Into sleep. Turn to 142.

459
You soon discover that it’s almost entirely impossible
lo communicate with these people — they simply can!

s60

understand a word you say. I you decide to wet more
accustomed to the town, tum to 18g if you have
already been lo the kavern or to 293 if you haveni.
Olhenyvise, you can try to track Mendus by drawing
a Holy Symbol] (lurn to 78) or by using a dog (tum
to 45).

aéo
All feeling disappears, first from your limbs, [hen frora
your body. Is this death? A memory is nagging at
you, but you cannot place it... until light bursts upon
your ¢ycs — dorchlighl, You are in a cell A crack
sunders lhe [loor. Somehow you have retumed to the
Margrave’s castle, but it is a hollow vidory: you have
defealed your greatest enemy, bul at the cost of
Reinhardt, the son of your greatest ally, and your
rightfy! Jord. If only you could have found some way
of keeping: him from dying: -. -

364-364

a6L
Note down the number ’510. From now on, whenever
you make a crass on your Adoenture Shoet, mark a
circle as well. When you have four circles, you can
turn to 319, For now, mark a cross (and a circle) then
tum ta a4x

Your eyelids start lo feel heavy, end your head droops
an to your shoulder _..

You wake to find yourself lying on a comfortable bed,
staring up inte the wizard’s brown eyes. Forgive me
for hypnotizing you,’ he says. Tt was necessary in
order to cast the spell which places our language in
your mind’ You start to reply, then realize the implica-
tions of what he has said. Note down the tal
on your Adperture Shee? (if you already have ‘basic kal’,
erase ‘basic). He continues, ‘] have also learnt some-
thing which may be of use to you The foe you
through the dimensional portal into our land

eluded you. The corpse you left back at the river
was that of your lord — by switching bodies, the
Chaos Mage Mencius has escaped. His power is such
that 1 can sense his presence in this land ~ and day by
day he is growing stronger!’ This news is terrifying,

263

You have never heard the term ‘Chaos Mage’, but you
sense that the man to whom you ar¢ speaking is of a
different kind from those you have dedicaled your life
to exterminating. He holds up the ruby ning you
found earlier, 'I took the liberty of rernaving this fram
you — it ls a Trelester ltem which could cause you
much harm’ Cross the ruby ring off your Adpowurr
Shwe) and turn lo 44.

263
Apart from the lngermg heal, ths 5s no worse than
many other places where you have had to sleep rough
in your travels, You find a reasonably sheltered spot
ag make 2 small fire. You fall asleep, staring up al the
feerefiar paltern of stars, Nex! moming you are up at
dawn, Tun lo 364.

ihg-285

ahs
You dimb over the dances to a sandy beach Gulls are
wheeling in the ay and waves rol! lazidy up the sand.
Some dimance away to your left, two long strands of
dune graus wave lazily alop a low hillock, dose to the
water's edge. Will you:

Head along the coast to your lel? Tum tc ¢o
Approach the dunei Tum lo 314
Make your way along the com to

your aghiT Tum io 20

feitaring, yct it’s sccurate enough, It elicits no response
from the wizerd. Further attempis at depicting ithe
Margrave's castle and the pine-clad hills of your home-
nothing more than puzzlement and

abt

Without knowing hs language, !here’s no more you
can gel ovt of the wizard Will you now:

Kall Ain? Twn to ag¢
Leave him bound? Tum to a4
Free him? Turn to aos

266
‘Catch tha treachereus rogue who brought me here! |
want Wen Aayed alive — you hear me? Played alivet’
Rembard fuss lost bttle of his anogenee. # sco He
apptars (ao have leat no heamility, despite the faci
thet owas hie fooishees whch aed thes mo
the Are place Luckify. Klveim seers more conoerned
with yrap wound Brothing acide Resmhardi’s bhester-
ing, he Lakes a tary jar of powder oui of a mall pouch,
reddes a short chant and pliers his hand on your
momech A ware of well-being comes over you Far
the Grvt time mince you syibched bodies with Reha.
the pain fram your bullet woursd completely dimp-
prers. (np the Campanian box of your Adpmfurt Sheri.
(Tease wy Curend entries for stamina and SniLt ad
ender |he velues sein 6, STAMINA 12. Alto erate the
Sheuce Sow’, if you have it en your Adoeniare Sheri,

>

=!

—-

a67

267
Kallamehy’s marketplace is full of aggressive traders,
desperale to foist lheir wares off on you, You can find
anything you want, but obtaining it quickly is another
malter. You also slarl lo grow a lillle suspicious of the
qualily of some of the wares on sale, You can also bry
| (o obtain money by selling any precious objecls you
may have acquired. However, you realize that you are
nol going lo get the best price here, You are looking
for a quick sale and haggling wilh maslers of their
crafé. Nole that 10 Silver Pieces (sp) are worlh 1 Gold

Piece (gp).

To Buy To Sell

Candles, 12 asp A horse 2024p
Backpack igp) = A ruby ning 20gp
Cloak, fine silk 1ogp «= A Gold Hex 55p

Clothing. undyed =oqep A shauca claw 5eP
apper igp A vizier's robe 40gp
Gloves, leather scp  Al-Bakbuk’s vlass ipp

Horse 4ogp <Acryslalgoblet sap
Laniem agp) Adiamond icogp
Mirrer, small 5sp — Jewellery
Provisions (each (per piece) 10-60 ep
mea)) Bsp {coll one dice then
Rope, hemp, rautiply resull by
10 metres 7aP 10)
Sword, (heavy A magic amulel = rogp
and curved} zogp =s- A serrated knile Igp
A lapis lazuli
brooch SEP

[F you have a dog and wish lo obtain goat meat, fun

a68=270

io 106. f you poses a reby ning. aed you now ib
sacra you may usé It. When you have bought all you
need, woatk @ croms on your Adpumhere Sfust and lum

te 24. If you thank bim for has hetp. burn to 127.

70
The Skeletons pres in a deepinpar os
irilng. You manage to hack down @ couple o '
bad even fo inoicble, Fromm tw chanter above 2
mocking laggh echoes down to yous ft is your enemy,

— ——

b7T~af3

celebrating the dakeal of his greatest Loe. Nowe his evil
will spread umchallenged, Your story enda here.

71
You close your eyes tight to try to rid yourself of the
uncomfortable feeling, and after 2 while it clears. You
rest for another few minutes, then continue. Tum to 338.

273
You complete the transaction and make your way out of
the market, Suddenly you are seized from all sides. The
merchant holds up the crystal goblet, and the sharp-eyed
fellow with the points at you and nods You are

ing, rranscleman stripped to the waist. Your arm
is tied to a frame and you watch in

horror as the swordsman raises his sword high above his
head and it down Instantly, agony shoots from
your arm all your body. The world «tarts to
iwim around you and, mercifully, you faint. When you
awaken. the horror of your situation dawns on you. You
are a cripple in a strange land. Soon after the loss of your
hand you go down with brain fever. which

you for weeks on end. By the time you recover it is too
iste — Mencius has seized control of Kallamehr, his
power growing stronger by the day, Your career as a
magehunter ends in abject failure

a7%
The tunnel continues peat a reer of doors with barred
operangs. The doors sre af locked shud. You peer inlo

r74-ay7

the first bul can make nothing oul. You carry on along
the tunnel: bum Io 179,

174
Teo lele. you think of Reinhard. He B nod mith you
NOW, 60 you can only astm that he hes been killed
by the shaggy creature. Now all you can hope to do is
brim Mencnn to puttice, You dab al the cul, opened
by the monster's bios, |l's painful. but you've suffered
wore (Mole down Sheu Scar on your Adoenhet
Shret), Turn lo 377.

273
You open the box gingerly, bratde mm your prito], box
of powder, and a lead bell (male therm on yor
Adoritire Stith 1] will see you again’ says Menus,
‘but for now | had better hurry baek lo my towar,’ So
say@e, be hurries off. H you follow him turn to 512.
Olhereise, bam to age

196
You corecentrate hard, staring into Reinhardl’s eyes
Nothang, You take hn hand and try again.
Sill there lp mo resull. Whalewer spell caused you lo
silch bodies, id's aol thal cauly reversed Turn to

175

a77
You found no food an lhe way to the mounlam —
there is mene on the way back You scan lose the
etremeth lo walk sinking to ths = untoral ving ground
You dae here, uwameurned, ford for carrion.

17t-.he

178

Unfertunately you're Ao meudanesr, After descend.
Ing a mere Giry metres. a phroe of rock shafts under
your fest: caught off balance, you claw desperalely al
the rock face but in vain. As you Jail the mountain
face rushes past your wildly teristing body, and the
pain of preesure bealds in your ches. The ground
rushas up towards you... Turn to a1.

179

The counters drag you stong a number of corridors
and down flights of staics. Grally depositing you in a
liny. lightlesa ecll Here you languish for reveral days.
wexedermg whether you will ever sce sunligh) again
Finally guarde drag you fem ycam orll and throw you
out of Lhe palace gales Wo you have the srard ‘early’
on your Aduetire Sheri, cross |i off, Mf you left a
human companion oulside the palace, there it now no
sagn of him — note down the word ‘missing’ on your
Adlormharr Shart. Homever, FE you left Kurt here, he
Tung up tO you. apparently nane the warse for a few
days alone in the diy. If you now have ane or move
onsen on your Adventure Suet, turn lo ag: olherwiw,
tam to 100.

aie
Your Arst allempl is no more than « croak bul as
panic takes bold, you AM your lungs and jet rip. You
thot utd you we howse, af the time feeling the
Polson creeping through waar body. Luckily yow are
mol moving, ao In painful progress ts slow. As damn.
nese grips you and your vislon fades, you think you

2Bxr-2Ba

see an old man wearing some sort of green cloth
wrapped round his head as a strange hat, Then you
sink into a fuzzy world of pain -. Turn to 344.

332

You acep warily down [he tunnel. A faint lumines-
cence comes from the walls, and you can barely make
oul the way ahead. Alter several metres the bunnel
opens up 2 lille, A dark figure, sitting against the
wall leaps up as you draw near and challenges you in
g language of unearthly resonance. The figure carries 3
sword wilh an ugly-looking serrated blade,

DWELLER IN THEDARK § sKitt3 sTAMINA?

You must fight wilh your Allack Slrength reduced
by 2 points because of the darkness. JF you win, tum
to 173-

292

"Transformed into a lange raver. Al-Azrad Look lo
the skies. Jaddar was furious: his enemy had escaped
him onc more. Bul he was famous for his delermina-
tion, Making careful note of the direction in which
the raven flew, he pressed on through the forest.
Soon alter leaving the trees, he came upon a small
hut in frent of which sal a hunchback. This fwisted
fellow nevertheless greeted him heartily and, in
answer lo Jaddar’s questions, replled that he had seen
a raven Aying north towards the Omniprescnt
Tower, Jaddar, seeking lo learn more about the
Tower, received in answer from the hunchback the
following tale:

aé5-384

“There was once a foolish prince who befriended a
wicked man. Even though he knew the man was an
unbeliever who practised the black arts, the prince
often enjoyed his company. Finally the scoundrel was
acresled by one of the king's officers, and locked up In
a dungeon. The prince, worried thal the wicked man
might tell of their association, implicating him In his
crimes, went down to the dungeons. What plan was
forming in his reckless young mind?”’ IF you think that
the prince KWled the wicked man, turn lo 326. If you
think he freed him. turn lo 122.

283
You haven't walked far before Reinhardl collapses,
complaining that he tripped because of the wretched
bady he now inhabils, so you agree to a brief rest.
Five minutes later, a slight dizziness overcomes you
and your scalp prickles, Test your Ewck. If you are
Lucky, burn to 296. If you are Unlucky, Lurn to 128,

284

The officials al the palace are quite talkative and they
ask you many questions, which you deflect skilfully. In
response lo your questions, you lear that they know
of no other foreleners Itke yourself in the clty. There
ate quite a number of wizards, they say, but none
which poses a threat to the securlty of the city. Mark a
cross on your Advenfure Sheet and bum fo 342.

Sigez a

289-286

285

Alter an hour or so’s walking next day, your nose
picks up the faintest brace of sall-spray — you must be
ncar the sea! At the top of a low rise you can make
out some ruins, which on closer inspection resemble
some of the old ruins of your homeland Wandering
among them, you are surprised by a creature as strange
as any you've seen summoned by your soreerous
erremies. Il is Fully six metres in lengih, wilh a golden
body and the head of a lian, byt sprouling 3 pair of
wings. As you slart Jn surprise, the Lhing grunts at
you, ils voice surprisingly reminiscen! of a human's. ff
you atlack [he creature, Lurn to 38. If you lreal the
Uhing, with respect, turn to reg If you hold your
ground warily, your weapon Ln hand. turn to 375.

286

You awaken Jate: the sun is up and shining down on
you brightly. And yet... a sixth sense Is telling you
ihal something is not quite right. Something else woke
you .., something close ... something strange. There
it [st A dancing ball of pale light, Moaling im the air.
Fascinated, you walch it approach. Tiny bolls, like
lightning, stact to spit from the ball. Suddenly it darts
lowards you. You barely have a chance to ready
yoursel£

ask SCINTILLATING GLOBE sxuig  sTAMINAG
‘ « if you make a successfy) attack on the glabe, tum to

\ SI QS 346. If your STAMINA is reduced fo 2 or less by the

globe, tum to 34.

a87-266

287

You cefurn along the beach as far as the body of the
Glanl Crab. Approaching il, you gel ihe eerie [eeling
that it is moving. Then you realize that the cab is
Indeed dead but is covered with slithering, transfucent
shapes, Apparently devald of sense-organs. these jelly-
like eels nevertheless are dearly aware of your pres-
ence. They clilher across the sand cutting off your
relreat. Close up, they possess no dislinguishing fea-
tures — they are just metre-long. worm-like lumps of
sentient gristle, You will have to fight your way
through ten of them lo make your escape, Fight them
one at a time.

SX{(LL STAMINA
First JELLYWORM 4 2
Second JELLYWORM 3 3
Third JELLYWORM 4 2
Fourlh JELLYWORM 4 3
Fifth JELLYWORM 3 2
Sixth JELLYWORM 4 2
Seventh JELLYWORM 4 2
Eighth JELLYW ORM 4 3
Ninth JELLY WORM 3 2
Tenth JELLYWORM 4 2

If you win through. you escape along the beach. Tum
to 220,

386
You charge oul of the cave and inlo the valley. If you
have a shackles key, lum to 133. Otherwise, fun Lo
466,

289-150

269

The blast strikes you head on, flinging you backwards.
Lose 4 point fom your stAMINA. Khasim's magic
amulet has protected you fom lhe full force of the
blast Seizing the opportunity, you dash forward, col-
ouring your weapon wilh lhe splash of blood which
fell fom Mendus's brow. Menaus shrieks once more
and prepares to release another blast. But you are on
him frst. [6 you have the Book of Craff, bum to ag;
otherwise, him to 334.

go
You make a dive for Mencius, but Ehe crack In the
floor widens and an unearthly force sucks you towards
it. You hover on Lhe brink as Mendus plunges down.
Then Reinhardt desperately grabs for you You bath

390

fall headlong Into blackness, Seconds pass and Jenglhen
into minutes, Time no longer seems lo be passing. All
around is black Feeling disappears from your |Ilmbs,
(hen from your body, The sensation of falling ir gene.

Light bursts upon your eyes like a shalt of ice. You are
slanding on a mountaln ledge. Oul of Ihe comer of
your eye you see a figure toppling From lhe ledge.
You rush lo the edge but are loo late - the gure rolls
down the scree slope and plunges into 4 [asl-owing
river. You waich for some seconds, bul see na sign of
him surfacng. A groan from behind brings you spin-
ning around. Mencius is |ying in a heap an the
ground His jet-black hae w now streaked wrth grey
and 3 Uickle of blood dampens his brow. If you wasie
no tine in kilbng bam, tum Lo ao. if you exarrune him
while he & unconscious, burn La 1m7. [f you bring him
round bam to 363

491-392

2gi
The crazy figure shrugs and disappears from view.
Moments later, the ship moves away, and you are feA
alone on the ledge. Turn to 365.

aga
The courtiers block off your route lo the door, so you
can see only one avenue of escape the intimately
Latticed window, You charge at il, smashing it and
sailing through the air, lo splash in an omamenhil
pond below. Lose 1 point from your stamina Before
the alarm can be raised, you sprint across [he courl yard
and out through the palace gate, under the noses of
the surprised guards. [{ you have a companion or Kurt,
you quickly meet up with them and disappear into the
back streets. Nole down lhe word ‘balh’ on your
Adventure Sheel. if you have one or more crosses on
your Slicer, turn lo 24a: otherwise, lurn to 100.
= ONAN 4

OS =
wy,

.

195

293

There must be a tavern of some kind round here, but
can you recognize if? In your land, taverns advertise
their trade with signs — often pictures of a pitcher
brimful of becr. There are no such signs here, however.
Finally you see a man staggering out of an orale
stone bullding with the unmistakable swagger of a
drunkard, You hurry in, lo view the sirangest bar
scene you've ever beheld. The customers are seated on
rugs, being served by scantily clad men and women.
They are drinking their brew from cut glass. As you
ender, their eyes al] tum to you, and the room grows
hushed. For a momnt panic grips you, bul then the
conversation resumes. You sigh in relief, remembering
countless sinular experiences in country leavers aol
your homeland You take a seal and are quickly be-
friended by a huge, bearded local He seems unworried
at your lack of language ability and slarts to teach you
same of the basic words, clicking his fingers at frequent
inlervals to replenish both his glass and the one he
provides for you. It’s nol beer, buf a sweet, light wine
which docs wonders for your exhaustion.

What is your plan now? If you or a companion have a
bullet wound and wish lo visit a doctor, tum io 2. If
you have a Shauca Claw, turn fo 210, [f you want to
concentrate on acquiring some knowledge of the [an-
guage, bum fo 55. If food is your main need, lum to
&g. Or you may prefer to buy some other essential
aupplics; turn io 24 3-

23947295

2a4

‘So finally the snake lay dead. Jaddar cut off its head
and put it in his pouch, then turned his head homeward.
Three days and three nights he travelled, full of joy
that once again he would see the city he loved, On
the fourth day, however, he saw a dejected figure on
the road before him, Approaching closer, he saw il
was a vizier who had entertained Jaddar as a guest on
many occasions and had supported his cause. The
vizier’s clothes were tom and dicty and, as soon as he
saw Jaddar, he began to wail: “Evil, treachery. blas-
phemy agalnst the will of Hazaht" Jaddar asked him
whal was (he maller; from him he learned that there
was a new Emir in the cily, a man of evil moods and
doubtful faith. “Qh give me a sword, lhal ] may fight
against this injustice!’ the vizier pleaded Jaddar will-
ingly gave him his own sword and. magic bow in
hand. accompanied him back to the aly. On lhe way,
the vizier told Jaddar a slory.’ Tur to 571.

295
The innkeeper wasles no limes in argument. Snalching
up a butcher's deaver, he leaps at you.

INCENSED INNEKEEPER SKILL 7
If you defeat the innkeeper, turn to 1x7.

STAMINA 9

Glancing around, you happen to catch Reinhardt's eye.
You lock stares, and the dizziness grows stronger,
There isa feeling like falling through the air, and you
find yourself staring into Reinhardt's eyes ~ but now
Reinhardt is back in his own bodyt A sharp pain in
your stomach confirms that you are now in the body
of Mencius! Reinhardt is delighted to be restored to
his natural state. In the box marked ‘Companion’ on
your Adventure Sheet, write ‘5’ next to sxizt and ‘8
next to stamina. Then lick lhe box marked 'Syilch’ in
the boHom right-hand comer. This box shows that
you haye swilched bodies with your companion.
Unless you switch back, you will use the siti and
STAMINA Scores Of your companion, Wrile any equip-
ment you gain while in |his body in lhe bottom part
o! the Equipment box, so ihal you keep track of who
has whal. You now know how lo switch bodles.
Whenever your scalp prickles, you can change bodies

Le
497

with Relnhardl or Mencius, You will not be given this
as an option, but you may choose to switch anyway.
To switch, simply add together the digits of the
paragraph you are at, then add the result to the
paragraph you are at, For example, if you were at
paragraph 283, you would add the digits (2 +8+5=
13), then add this total to the paragraph you were at
(13 + 283 = 296) and then lum fo paragraph 296. Now
that he has his body back Reinhardl is eager 1a track
Mencius and find a way back to his own land. He
drags you to your feet and you sel off again. Tum to

345.

297
With a lhunderclap, the Genie appears.

‘Kl hil’ you shriek, pointing at the gesturing Agure.
The Genie wastes no lime in allacking your enemy,
and the two are soon embroiled in an al]-oul baltle —
ravening bolts of magical energy repeatedly blast the
Genie, who responds with juddering punches against
the mage’s magical barrier. If you seize the moment to
flee, note down the word ‘genie’ and tum to 376. If
you stay Eo help, turn to 42.

29-00

398 |

You slee] yourself for the pala but are relieved, if a
little surprised, when the physician treats your injury
wilh herbs that sling slighlly, then bandages it
tightly. In the Companion box of your Anoenture
Sheet erase [he STAMINA score and replace id with 10;
erase the sktiL score and replace il with 6. Note
down the word ‘bandage’. You leave the lave in
high spirits — your benefacler insisls on retuming for
another drink or three, Thai's fine with you, as the
lavyem is relatively cool: Out in the slreeis, Ihe sun
beats down on your head. making your scalp prickle.
Turn to 35,

299

Tugging the rope up round the man's neck. you slarl
lo tighlen it. He is surprisingly weak and, aller a
rasping gurgle, goes limp. You conlinue lighiening the
rope, jusl to be on lhe safc side, then release his
pathetic corpse. If you haye a Shauca Scar, tum do 425.
Othernvise, tum lo 394

500

‘) can’t be bothered to leam your Janguage,’ he says,
‘so [ taught you mine.” Sure enough, you can now
understand him periectly (note dawn ‘kal’ on your
Adventure Steel), ‘IU probably help you,’ he continues,
‘as Lhis fellow Mencius is a bit of a nuisance, and you
seem lo have burst [rom the same bubble as he’ [f you
have a ruby ring and a Book of Creafl, furn to 207, If
you haye just a ruby ring, lum to ga. If you don't
have a ruby ring, burn Lo 368.

| |
301-304

yor
Al-Fakik spits on the rough floor. ‘It'll cast you,’ he
says. Two gold in advance.” If you pay him. cross
the money off and tum to 39. If you do not: you can
tell him his brother sent you (tum to 213) or leave
him in peace (turn to 205 if you have the word ‘trail
written down; otherwise. mark 2 cross and turn to

441).

jaa
Afler a while you lose sight of the smoke, but you do
happen upon @¢ mountain palh whic) seems fo be
going in the aight direction. Turn to a.

395
Tick he ‘Switch’ box on your Aduentrire Sheet Reing
hardt is jubilant to be back in his own body again and
leis out a shout of pure joy, Khasim almost falls off the
Carpel in surprise, bul he soon calches on 1a what has
happened. Turn to 93,

jo4
You are ready to start lracking Mencus. Kurl seems

eager to slart, arei you have io keep him an a light

JON—JO7

leash. You quickly leave the town and head out into
the countryside. IF you have a wleard's pouch, tum ie
97; athernise, hum lo 176

305
What will yeu do to defend yourself before this

4pparilion completes his spell? Will you:
Shoot him with a pistol and a silver

bullet (if you have one)? Tur la 46
Strike him with a sword? Turn lo tag
Attack him with rope of human hair

(if you have ji Tum to 8
Toss 2 gold hex (if you have one}? = Tum lo 2a

Or you may use the secret of the ring. if you know il.

306

With a clap of thunder, the mighty Genie appears. He
quickly dears a path through the advancing Skeletons
to the flight of stairs, scattering their bones like match.
sticks, The Skeletons continue to Press in. and your
enchanted servant finishes the lost of them with a
broad sweep of his arms. ‘Master. thal was your last
wish! Now f will have my freedom,” the Genie declares,
then he disappears. The ruby ning has gone from your
hinger (erase it from your Aroenture Sheet), Turn to
393

507
The two cloaked figures whom you are not fighting
litt Reinhardt's sleeping form and drag him away into
the darkness You are too busy holding off your

eee ee
308309

enemy to do anything about it. Continue fighting the
Shrouded Skulker. [E you win, burn lo 258,

308

The man, who must be some kind of hermit, ushers
you a liltle way inte his cave. He asks if he can help
you. lo which you reply that you are looking for
a sorcerer, ‘[ am a sorcerer, he says. If you attack him
straight away, tum to the paragraph which conlains
your method of altack {you must have the appropriate
iem). Will you:

Strike hm wilh a rapier? Turn lo as7
Strike him with a broadsword? Tum to 7
Urge Kurl lo attack him? Turn lo 183
Bind him wilh rope of human hair? Tum to 36
Shoot him with a pistol? Turn to 330

Or, If you chaose nol to allack him after all, turn to
362,

199
All feeling disappears, first ftom your limbs, |hen from
your body. Is this dealh? A memory is nagging at you,
but you cannot place if... until light bursis upon your
eyes — torchlight. You are in a cell, A ccack sunders
the floor, Reinhardl is standing by your side. Somehow
you have retumed lo the Margrtave's case. The two
of you make your way through its passages. In the
Great Hall, you are seized by guards and brought
before the chamberlain, who seems to have installed
himself as the new Margrave. He eyes you suspl-
ciously, ‘Congratulations, magehunter. You have

J10

recaptured the mage Mencius, slayer of our beloved
former Margrave, Reinhardl. Since it is almost dawn,
we will burn him immediately.’ Both you and Reinhardt
slacl lo protest, but Ia no avail. Affer all, Reinhardt Js
in Mencius’s body. Your vidory over Mencius is
hollow — haweyer much you may dislike Reinhardt, he
is the son of your greatest ally. You watch hit burn,
lugung over and over in your mind the missed chances
lhat might have kept him alive.

5310

Reinhardé screeches with disappointment as you break
away; loo late, he realizes that he has missed the
chance of being reuniled wilh his own body and that,
if either of you had wished to make the transfer, it
wauld have happened, You thank your quick wits for
working out faster than Reinhardt what was happening,
and continue with the divination, At least now you
have the encouraging thought that it's possible for
you to return to your own body, All you have to do
is find and subdue Mencius first! Turn to 32,

Wn ee _
Sau

tat

In the shadow of a huge pillar you find a wide tunnel
leading downwards. You grope your way into the
murky interior, stumbling over something, [t turns out
to be an exquisitely wrought necklace, with o dazzling
array of jewels set in gold. (Note down this piece of
Jewellery on your Adventure Sheet) [F you press on
Into the darkness, in search of more lreasure, hum to
24 If you make your way Eo the sea, salisfied with
your spoils, lurn to 364.

$iz

The Rangor Tower, overlooking the marketplace: thai
is where your pursuit of Mencus leads. You can icc
why he would want to make it his lair. As it is built on
the very edge of the cliff, it is impossible to fence the
mage in with a circle of mirrors. As you stare up at the
tower, it seems to exude a quality of permanence, as if

S13

it lt somehow more than real, You mount its steps anc
cautiously push open the brass-studded door. The
Greal Hall inside is empty. You walk warily cross it
lowards lhe staircase in lhe opposilc wall, surpnsed Lo
ree that the opulent carpel is covered with liny bones,
You have walked no more than six paces whan the
lrap Is sprung. The door slams shul. and ao horde of
living Skeletons, wielding bright bronze scimitars, arise
(rom the tlny bones, Tf you have the Book of Craft.
(urn to aga, [f you have the cing and know Jte secret,
yOu may usc il — unless you have the word ‘genic’
written down, in which case nothing happens, If you
have Kurt, turn to 45. Othenwise, turn to 270,

343
You start to draw the Holy Symbol in the sandy wil
vf the hillside, using Reinhardt's fancy rapler. When il
ls finished, you pick up a smooth slone and offer up a
prayer, For this method lo werk, you must be cam-
pletely calm. Bul a slight dizziness overcomes you:
yayr scalp prickles; your eyes are locked with Rein-
hardl's. If you break eye-contact and carry on with the
ntual, turn to aag If you continue slaring, turn lo 149.
314-316

314

There’s something strange about lhe lwo stands of
grass, As you approach, they waye more exciledly,
then point in your direction. Curious, you approach
closer — then you nolice that on the end of each strand
is an eye! The hillock quivers and shakes, and an
enormous crab heaves itself oul of the sand. With the
speed of ils spider-like legs it charges al you.

GIANT CRAB SKILL 9 STAMINA 10

For ils first aHack only, add 2 to the Gian! Crab’s
Altack Strength. If if succeeds in this ailack, it has
grasped you in ils pincer — you musi fight with a
temporary teduclion of 2 to your Allack Strength
unlif you kil) the arab. If you win, Lum to 10,

3%
Al-Bakbuk waves goodbye, suggestlig that if you are
ever in Kallamehr you should seek oul his brother, the
storyleller Al-Fakik. As a parting gill he gives you a
doth hat (note down ‘turban’ on your Adventure Sheet),
Now will you:

Go shopping? Turn to 246

Try to pick up the Lrail? Tum lo 524

Head for the cty of Kallamehr? Tum fo 348
316

‘Sure enough, the prince drew his dagger and plunged
it into Uke wicked man’s breast. Then he watched in
horror as the wizard’s eyes opened wide to slare at
him, With a sickening pop, lhe eyeballs New out of

ss > :
= .
og ‘ a) %) a 4
. ‘ fi ~ ahr ; A
ve *) i. ‘ ’ AN Sees a
> i ' rs. 7a , . 7 ‘
2 al ved ‘ = ° f
‘ % . - . ' ad Ps
S . Gs Y * 7 F ,
Ny . ' bs y < i MY , 4
Gs “ :
sb _ i : vy “i = - es
2 = "yy AL) ' . > if (2 . <
7. ’ - ° > avi’ 4 a J e
° Va . ‘ Lye, - se deat’ Fal eT
. ‘ 2 - Te ar =? ‘ ou

_-

3427-319

their sockets, circled the prince’s head twice, lhen flew
right into his mouth and down his throat! The wizard's
body slumped to the ground, but he was not dead,
With his eyes inside the prince, he could take over the
prince’s body at any time. When the prince became
king, a new era of evil fell upon the land, and the
blessing of Hazah left its people -..’ Turn to 151.

3197
Your eyes lock with Reinhardt’s, and once again you
experience the dizziness of body switch (erase the tick
from the ‘Switch’ bex on your Adventure Steel). Rein-
hardt is furious lo be back in Mencius’s body and
immediately starts raging al you, Your drinking com-
panion can’l understand what the problem is but wails
paHently until you're ready to go an into fhe tavern.
On entering, Reinhardt calms down a Little, Turn to

5S-

318
if you have a wizard’s pouch, and ‘basic kal’ is wrillen
on your Adventure Sheet, lum to 16. [F you don'i have
the pouch bul do have ‘basic kal’, lum to 126, Other-
syise, lum lo 249.

319
Finally lhe week is up. You decide lo cal) your dog
Kurt, affer an uncle of yours whom he resembles. Nole
dewn ‘Kurt’ on your Adventure Sheel and erase the
circles, [fF you know where Mendus is, you may po
there now. Oihenwvise, lum to 241.

330-5234

320
With the new Margrave gone, the casile is in uproar.
Reinhard! was Mechtner's only child and no one
knows which of the many distan| relatives is next in
line. Several retainers try lo lake command, and fac-
Hons emerge. Ignoring the developing power struggle,
you sel your mind lo the task of recovering Reinhardt
and recaphoing Mencius. Helping yourself to a horse
from the stables, you ride out Lo the ruined monastery
in which Mencus had been hiding when you tracked
him down, A thorough search uncovers a spell book.
writlen in the Old Language but comprehensible to
you (mole down lhe Book of Craft on your Adventure
Sheet), You have devoted your life to slamping out
sorcery bul now, if seems, you must learn same. For a
week you study the book, until finally you discover
the spell Mencius must have used te escape from the
cell, According to Ehe book, il cresles a ‘nexus’, a
galeway belween ‘realms of exislence’, It is a very
dangerous spell, and moreover it adds den years to the
age of the wizard who casls il. Nevertheless, it seems
that the only way for you to follow Mencius will be
to try Eo cast the spell. If you make lhe altcmpt, roll
one die, On a roll of 1 or 2, tur to 257, Ona 3 oF 4,
lum to 43. On a § or 6, tum to 115, If you decide not
to cast ihe spell, preferring, to wait and see if }Mencus
Telums, turn te 347,

321
As you slump to the ground, Reinhard| cries out; he
clutches al his stomach and moans. In the cvening
gloom, his face seems to be the colour of whey. You
Jara

try ta sleep, but Reinhardt’s moaning keeps you awake.
Finally il stops, and you slide into unconsciousness.

Next moming, Reinhardt is dead, You check his cloth-
ing and ara surprised to find lhe key |hal he had used
to free Mencius [rom his shackles, For some reason —
perhaps guilt — be had been carrying the instrument
by which he brought abaul hn own downfall (note
down the ¢hackles key an your Adomrurr Slvr). You
dig a shallow grave for his body and say a brief
prayer. Turn to 235.

322
If you have & ruby ring. lucn to iyo, Otherwise, tum
io 198,

3545
You should only seek cul a slaryteller you have nol
met before, Which storyteller will you look for.

Al-Fakik? Tum to 256
Al-Haddar? Tum fo 182
Al-Nashshor? Tum lo 44

Or, if you will setile for the first one you mun into,
tum to cag.

534
Your eyelids stat lo feel heavy and your head presses
on your neck like a lead ball... you are falling asleep.
If you wish to resist fhe spell, roll three dice. If the
result in leas than. or equal lo, your stamina, Lum fo
ai. If the result is greater than your sTAMINA or if
you don't wish Lo resist fhe spel], turn to x4.

345-327

55
With a jolt, you reallze that you are back In your own
body, Your ski. and STAMINA scores are returned to
their nitit! values. However, all your possessions have
gone. Erase all possessions, and in their place write
down the following: red dothing. pistol box of
powder, one lead bullet, 25 Gold Pieces, 2 Provisions.
Note Ure words thomne” anf ‘early’. If you
had a shackles key, note the word tos!", The woman
you are facing seems to be accusing you of something,
though you can't be sure exactly what. Still, it seems
best to apologize profusely and hope that she will
let you off, Since sideways glances reveal huge,
muscle-bound men waiting on either side of you and
tycing you with undisguised contempt, you prostrate
you are a mere foreigner, ignorant of this land and
#s cusloms. She waves her hand imperioudy. Tum
to 148.

326
The vizier thanks you for your assistance. ‘I go now to
try to free the city. May Hazah be with you in your
battle.’ So saying, he strides off, leaving you to face

the Omnipresent Tower. Turn to 362.

57
Assuming that the word of a sorcerer is inherently
untrustworthy, you decide that it’s better to go in the
opposite direction, Accordingly, you set your sights
—— and hurry away from the cool valley, Tum
O 557.

328-330

326

The figure chuckles to himself, then pulls the plank
back. If you have a ruby ring, turn to 46. Otherwise, if
you have a pistol you may prime it (note what kind of
bullet you are loading — you may shoot the diamond
you Sound, if you like} and shoot the figure (lum to
412); or you can jump over lo Lhe ship (tum Lo 239} or
wait where you are (lurn to 292).

349
Either passage seems as good as the ofher, so you
hurry along the left-hand tunnel, Afer a few melres
you are startled by a sudden movement case by.
Tuming, you see a hidden alcove in which are twa
more Dwellers in Darkness, \heir weapons al Lhe
ready. You have no chance io defend yoursel!, Taken

by surprise, your adventure ends here,

330
With practised ease you draw your pistol, cam the
bullet home, cock it and shoot. [n Ihe enclosed space
the detonation is deafening. the muzzle Slash leaves
you temporarily blinded. After a [ew seconds it clears.
The wizard lies in an untidy heap on Hie ground, his

3552-352

ches! a smoking ruin. There’s no doubt about it he's
dead; you can add anolher mage lo your list of
conquests, Delele the silver bullet from your Equip-
mient List. If you have a Shauyca Scar, tum lo 125.
Otherwise, lurn to 584.

331

Mencius can still prolect himself, but he is vulnerable
lo your weapon. His sxicc is 2 points less than your
Initial swice (since he is nol using a weapon his
STAMINA is Your driliaf STAMINA, Fight him as normal
However, he is not using a sword — instead he will
attack you wilh magic. If your Aliack Strength is
greater than his, il means you haye managed Io slrike
him and may inilict damage as nonnal. If your Attack
Strength is less than or equal to his, if means that you
were unable lo find an opening. His magical blast will
Ul you every round even if your Attack Slrength is
greater, In the first round you must lose 1 point fom
your STAMINA then, as the power of the magic amulet
is overcome, In every subsequenl rowid you musi lose
2 points of stamina, If you reduce Mencius to 2 or
fewer points of STAMINA turn lo xag If you have ihe
word ‘reflect’ on your Adventure Sheet ar lo 174 if you
don’t,

352
You run down the slope, racked with pain Jrom the
paison, and plunge inlo lhe fasl-Aowing stream. The
cool waler soalhes you a Jitfle, but the poison is still
spreading, Before you can do anything else, the venom
paralyses your limbs, Your misadventures end here.
333-334

333

In the blink of an eye you find yourself facing a wild-
eyed ragarulfin, dressed in ill-fitting rags. On either
side of him stand lwo faceless, robed figures who are
continually pulling him one way and another, You
cheeky rascal,’ be splutlers at you. You dare lo push
your Juck afer dispalching the Reaver in such a
cavalier fashion? ]’Il have to make another one now.
Get back lo your own world; you give me a head-
ache” Lose 2 points (rom your tuck. Also, you are
aulomaticaliy Unlucky in the coll you just made, Now
lum back Io lhe paragraph you came from and
continue.

334
What was that thing? You stoop to examine the
corpse of the huge halry monstrosity, You've never
seen anything remalely like il, even in books. After a
fight like that, you feel you deserve some kind of a
lrophy, You oul off one of the crealure’s claws (nole
down Shauca’s Claw on your Adventure Sheet). You
push on, following a path up into (he hills. Afler
anolher couple of hours’ walking, you reach a vantage
polat from which you can see the lay of the land.
Behind you is the town you passed, The river continues
past Jl, snaking round the bills, Ahead of you is the
sea, and off fo your right you can make oui a coastal

city. ¥¥il] you:
Go back to the town? Turn to 144
Head for ihe coast? Tum la 393
Make for the city? Turn to a7

|

7 TRE

hae
#9255 is
Hil :

Second BOUNCER
Fight

Firt BOUNCER

bins

Beis sf

3538
You hand over 9 Gold Pleces to the atalholder (crows
them aff your Adpenttor Sheef) Turn to a18.

Vou ere sinpeteed ‘to toien Witt the Spider Mage can
your language. Spare me, please!’ he begs, whin-

bathers. so a's beet to lewee
while you cor mark a cross on your Asortery Sham!

ated hum to ag

the bouncer one at a tere Mf you win you fare
of argty

a beth-houne All

aSuezjs siyj ul paaje nod aiaym yods Arar ay) uo
Suipueys que noA pue ‘ysey Suipurg J@yjoue Ss! 3234]
tht

‘g¥ o| uing ''* a4 puly “auc

[Lad DY) JO Upld ay] se orem aaus ‘Jou Apaang gaa jou
aur OUM SPIEZIm ALOS BIE BOY) }LY) aq HE P]NOT “dew
& Ag popnxs Ao}]}ewW oly [>] pwouge ues nos PuIto}
aAbY NOA JajuNYesew e se sIeaA NOAA Ul ‘|alW lava
aaey MOA Lay)O OU Dy Sf IY YA “aUaIIOS F AeA/D
St UPL SIYL ‘UaidojaAap Bursnsuoo your B st siyy
He8u0l 5 Suuwo3 st ay Aep Aq Aep pue — pue) siyj us
aduasaad Siy asus UD | yey] Yons st amod sip ‘sasuep
jeaS © Sl — Sminuapy ‘adeyy sory ay) — puey sno
OyUl eyvod [euosuaup ayy yanozy) pansund nod aoy
ay) “UosswW ineA jnoge Su) yjPLUOs jwea] Ose ancy
L ‘SONUIWOD VEY “(J|/Seq, e503 “(ey Mseq, oney Apralle
NOA Jl) jars adnpurdpyy INGA UO Jey, ploM ayy umop
DJON) “Pes sey ay yey fo suoNerydwy ayy azyeas
war ‘Apdor oO] yeys NO) “purut Inod Ut a8enBuey sno
sacred ysrym ypads ayy 4se2 0] sapio ul AueKs|DDU sem
i, Jaume Jay shes “nod Surznjoudiy AO] aw aalHioy,

“sade umes Ou! dn Suny ‘pag
ajqeojwos t ul Suid] yesMod puy oy ‘dn ayem nox

yt paaa any ag’ * * Aylesaja Jo pris

ant Oy ~* * fiyeesapa jo prea ay) op >> fipnaeajs fo pues ayy 0}

Hov osama fF ' ' * nROB Seupsp2) aust SStag jajsit anoA wads

rjind zanus B+ *' moM Seas pruer perry sary STURM) saEapA?

‘tr Sarssn) aap shumy ane *'* pues sy Sue asvyd ayy
EFS

zPre— tre

ad

‘OF O} wing
fqes> ayy jrayap nod yy ‘NOL UO did e sey qed ayy se
‘yiduas xX Mod way zt JO VOIPNpep Are0dur34
v Jayms ood yeAMAINS 40) ]YSy ayezadsap Inod UT

8¥adS INYVID

“He AY) OW NOA SHIM, pure saourd

s]} u) nod sqeId ‘nod Wo sured qesa ay] "WYBe ysulese

sBay Om, JO adeyueapesip & ye ave TOA yng “UU MOA
ort

OF NEA YLS oO 7710NS

‘tb 0] um ‘spueY sty WO) a@BZep ay) Ystp NOA ‘aFuN]
Ued ay JO Jag “YoUy & YINS JOY [Jey O] Paouauadxs oy se)
ait NOK yng 'saqod sty Woy 4aTBep payeaouod & paqqesd
sey sdeuc ay] ‘ayqgeq Ssiy yA nod Superjsip ayy
qusWaAOW SAILN) Uappns e aayou NOK | *' pPyOy Saye]
JO StUJvay F4y UI GaAe “SUOISUALIP 243 JNoYSno.y sysixe
aoe siyy YaMOY WUasardrunuD ay) Ul JIe] si apr sey
aSeyA] socy> 24], ‘sure Jno dn ypuad no, “uo saeS sy
“snDuapy Sb a]qqnq awes ay] wos) ae HOA, ‘ase> ut ysnl

ort

Ci. ae & oOo

M734

land. The Demon-creature laughs a laugh of pure
malice, points to the spot at which you disposed of
Mencius’s body, and says, ‘Foolish mortal! Reinhardt
died here. The former owner of this bady now wears
another, But since Reinhard! is dead | will gladly
speed your journey lo his side!’ So saying, the thing
attacks.

DEMON OF THERING) sxititz STAMINA 20
lf you defeal he Demon, turn to 69.

Mark a cross on your Adventure Sluvt. Afler the show,
you see which tent the magician reluns to then sneak
up behind it. ]f Kurt is with you, tum lo 177; athenwise,
furn lo 54.

44
Wilh a final swing, you dispose of lhe creature, its
bady toppling off the back of the beetle. The enormous
insect continues along the tunnel at a remarkable pace,
but the ride is surprisingly smooth. Shrouded in dark-
ness, you have no way of telling the time, but you

344

guess that well over an hour passes before you are
disgorged inla another chamber. This is rather smaller
than the first, but nevertheless il contains several
buildings. You see Iwo of the black-skinned dwellers
below, but luckily they pay no ailentlon to you. As
you don't knaw how to cantroal lhe beetle, it just
continues straight Uough the middle of the chamber
and along a tunnel opposite This begins lo siope
upwards, while narrowing. You pass an alcove, and a
startled ebony face looks up al you, then starts lo give
chase, Ahead. you see Lhat the ceiling of the lunnel is
abruptly geHing lower. Taking a risk, you leap down
in front of ihe beetle and nm, pell mell, for the
narrower seclion of the lunnel, You ceach safety jusl in
time. The beeile plunges forward and comes lo a
sudden halt, wedged tight; it blocks the tunnel, its legs
Hailing, oiling your pursuer Jor the moment. You
hurry up ihe slope before the beetle can get free. Afler
a short while you reach the end of the tunnel, where a
set of steps are cut in the wall leading up Io a palch of
sunlight, You emerge Jrom a hollow tree into dayllght,
looking across at a large, walled city, straddling a sea
cliff, A ten-minute walk brings you within ils walls.
Tum io ta0,

345-347

345

You collect some dry wood and build a fire; here is
plenty of Hinder, and the jab is casy. Mencius’s bady is
soon being consumed by a roaring blaze, ‘You sit by
the fire and resl, since you are unaccountably tired.
You drift off to steep, waking as the red orb of the sun
slides behind the hill opposite. Checking your posses-
sions, you are surprised to find no sign of your pislal
or mirrors, Tun lo 75.

346
Rall one dice. [F the resull is an odd number, turn to
243, (£ the result is an even number, check your
Adventure Sheet: if you have a Baok of Craft, fur Io 5-
Wf you haven'l, turn to 169.

347
You wait for a month, during which time lhe situation

grows steadily worse. You realize \hal none of the
factions trusis you. since you ccfuse to commit yourself.
The Chamberlain, with whom you have never got on
particularly well, seems to be emerging as lhe new
ruler of the domain. One moming you awaken to find
saldiers searching your room, Finding Mencius’s spell
book they drag you before the Chamberlain.

‘As you suspecled, sire,’ announces the sergeant who
arresled you, ‘we found this work of the Evil One in
his possession,’ and he passes Mencius’s Book of Cralt
to the Chamberlain

He [lips a couple of pages with distaste, Do you have
anything to say before sentence is passed? he enquires,

agb-349

arching his eyebrows, You protest lhal you were
hoping to pursue the mage who kidnapped Lord
Reinhardt, but you tratl off as it seems obvious the
Chamberlain is deaf to your words. ‘Il is well known
that those exposed to the practice of sorcery are oflen
drawn by its allure. Despile your past merilorious
conduct, there can be no exceptions. You bum at

dasvn,"

348

The cily of Kallamehbr lies on the coast, several days’
journey distant. Luckily a road Jeads there: following
it, you aré able io travel salely by night and slccp in
what shade you can find during the day lo escape the
blazing sun. Finally the walls of the cily rear up ahead
of you — sand-coloured ramparls completely different
from the drab, grey granile of the Margrave’s castle.
Close io the gates, you join a slream of olher travellers
making their way into the clly. Tum io 100,

349
You wander through the market, constantly assailed

by traders eager for your custom. [gnoring lhem, you
find yourself drawn lo the tower, You appraach it,
staring up the flight of stairs which leads to the door.
Tf you have a Book of Crafi, bum Io 968. Othenvise,
lum to 23.

350-351

350

It's hol; #’s really hot. The sun is beating down on
you as you walk, and Reinhardt wheezes and gasps for
air, staggering along behind you. You make your way
along the mountalnside, finally entering a gully; the
coo] relief of the shade is like a banquet lo a slarving
man, AHer a while the gully opens out into a valley
down which flows a river, presumably the same one
you saw earlier. You make your way down to the
river's ¢dgc and refresh yourself with |he cool water.

Your only warming of altack is a savage yell. You
whirl, to face a crealure from nightmare: fanged bestial
fealures snar] in a green-hued face and a wickedly
curved sword slashes at you.

GREEN NIGHTMARE SKILL 7 STAMINA 10

Reinhardt clutches his head in horror ~ he is so panic-
stricken he is useless to you. You may Escape if you
wish by grabbing your companion and leaping into
lhe civer, However, if you do lhis, the creature will
aulomatically Injuré you {you may reduce this altack
using Luck in Fhe usual way), If you Escape, turn to 16.
[F you defeal lhe monster, turn lo 140.

351
The audience Is for one person only so, if you have a
companion, or Kurt, they must wail for you oulside
the palace. You are led into a magnificent audience
chamber in which Asiah Albudur sits regally on a
throne, allended by huge men wilh oiled muscles and
sour expressions. She peers at you short-sightedly-
A ——

J52-J53

You prostrate yourseH before her, then rising lo
your knees, tell her all about the peril of Pencius She
listers Lo your shory, then pauses for long seconds
before declaring: ¥vhat babble is this? Why should |
fear some wizard? [ have six of my own to protect
mel’ She waves her hand imperiously, Tum to 148.

352
Seizing you im ils talors, the bard wheels iio the sky.
ff you have a dog. or KurL written on your Adventure
Sheel, cross them off. If you have a shackles key. a
Sreeka Scar or a Shauca Scar, turn to agx. Olherwise,
turn to 4.

Khasim’s orypilc remark reoeins a myslery for thoty
minutes, during which Gime he urges you to rest and
prepare for tha journcy. He points out thal Mcncius
has been In Kallamehr for a couple of days already, bul
thal you will ba able lo evade detection on entering
the city. Finally, he bids you prepare for depariure. He
cares the carpet oul of the cave Inlo the fresh air of
the valley. If you have a shacklcy key. fun lo 56:
otherwise, furn lo 227.

354-356

354
‘You swing af ihe flapping black bad bisting te
avord ik swoopa The snake and the lion both fade
into nothingeress,"

RAVEN SKILL 7 STAMINA 4

Figh| the raven ar normal; however, you may nol die,
I your stamina fr recuced la zero er less, tum to
asx If you defeal the raven, tum to @y.

455
You stare at the wizard for a while, and he stares
curiously back at you, For a long moment there is
silence. You can’t help feeling that this man’s eyes lack
the evil ambition of the mages you have encountered
before — but then maybe he's just dever. Without
being able lo comarmnicale, there's lathe you can do.
If you change your mind and strangle him after all.
(um to 296, [f you take a gamble and release him, tum

fo gz.
i
gis

—_
™ TE.

356
The palace officials are slightly suspicious of you, but
you are careful in your enquiries and so0n they relax a
ere ree Soak ‘crty Way et two earlee
foreigner meeting the description you give them ob-
tained an audience with Asiah Albudur, As a result

 ——o a

357

of thal audience, le was granted permission to live
in the Rangor Tower overlooking the markel, a build-
ing which has been desecled since the death of Lhe
previous ruler. Clearly this was an extraordinary turn
of events, You are now fairly surc where Mencius is
hiding: lhe Rangor Tower. If you go there now,
lum to 323, Olhenwise, mote down the number “322°
on your Adventure Sheel. Wf you are given the oplion
lo go lo the place where you know Mencius is, you
may turn to lhis paragraph. Now, if you want an
audience with Asiah Albudur, Hum lo 197 if you
have the word ‘bath’ writlen dawn, or to 16a if you
do not. Otherwise, mark a cross on your Shee, then
turn to 241.

357

You are travelling through land which becomes increas-
ingly mountainous, Ahead of you, snow-capped peaks
rise above the horizon. As you climb, the temperature
becomes more bearable, but the quallty of the air
deterioratus. You see no intelligent life, just several
strange species of animals. Check your Advestire Sheet.
[— you have 2 or more Provisions, tum fo 82. ff you
have fewer (han 2 Provisions, Lurh to 172.

358-359

358

You kick the body down the slope. Waler affects
wizards In strange ways. It makes their bodies swell up
to hyice their normal size. And if they are dead, their
swelling bodies dissolve rapidly, Maybe a village down-
stream wil] have bad-testing water for a day or so, bul
it shouldn’l harm them, You watch the body as iE is
cartied along by the current. There is no sign of i
swelling! Unable lo believe your own eves, you slither
down lhe slope and race along the sleep bank. You
follow the corpse [or many metres, but it remains the
same size. That can meéan only one thing: the body
was nol that of Mencius! Your opponent has eluded
you somehow. Tura to 187.

359
Regain up lo 4 points of sTamMiNa Now decide

whether to go along lhe beach to the lef! (turn lo 64)
or lo the right (lum to 220}.

560-467

360

Your gesture brings forlh a round of applause fom
the crowd. They ratse you shoulder high and carry
you round the lavem. Everyone wants io be your
companion, For the next few days you are a celebrity,
You stay at various people's houses, partaking of fine
foods. They dress you in clthes of silk (note these
down on your Adsesiure Slizet) and you pick up a little
of their language (mole down ‘basic kal’ on your
Adventure Sheet if il is not there already), Affler a week
when you finally persuade your hosts that you have
urgent business, lhey shower you with gifts, You may
restore your STAMINA lo its Initia! level (this will wot
testore points lost by travelling Ihrough the Magic
Portal}, You should also add the following lo your list
of possessions: lapis lazuli broach, lurban, green leather
boots, short sword wilh enamelled scabbard. Now you
must conlinue your search. [f you have a maby ring,
durn to ayo. lf you haven't turn to 126.

Evil lucks inside [his tower; you know it in your bones.
lf you have six or more miccors and svish to place
therm in a circle round the lower, cross thera off your
Arventire Sheel and note down the word ‘reflect’.

362

Restore your sTAMINA to Ils full value (do not recover
points lost by travelling through the Magic Portal),
You stride up the steps and warily push open lhe
brass-studded door. Within. the apulently furnished
Great Hall is emply, so you walk towards ihe slaircase
in the opposlle wall. You step on something hard and
are surprised fo see thal many Liny bones are scattered
over the rich red carpet. Behind you the door slams
shut and. from the bones, a horde of Ilving Skeletons
arise, wielding bright bronze scimilars. ]f you have the
Book of Craft, tum to 190, Olherwise, if you have the
sacred mace, tum io 7¢. If you do not, lum to 370,

164

The old man pauses, wrinkles his nose and peers al
you suspiciously, He asks you something you can't
quite understand, though it includes the word ‘Men-
cius. He knows something! AHer a long explanation,
mainty sings sign language, he gels you lo understand
(hat he cam teach you his language properly if you
wish, You realize he must be talking aboul some sort
of magic spell. [f you agree lo his, bum to x54. If
instead you demand Ehat he lell you where Mencius is,
turn lo 169,

355-364

363
AS a precaulion, you wet your sword’s blade with
some of Mencius’s blood, so thal jl can harm the
sorcerer. You notice thal your sword has changed —
your practical steel broadsword is now a fancy, bejewel-
led rapier. A few slaps across the face brings Mendus
found,

He groans again, then looks up, bleary-eyed, at you.
“What are you doing, you fool? he snarls. ‘How dare
you lay hands on me.’ You show him the rapier,
poised to strike, Fear pales his face as he stares, first at
the rapier, then at you, He gasps. ‘What sorcery is
this? You look exactly like me!’

His words make you look down at yourself, No longer
are you wearing rough garments of undyed cloth and
lealher. In their place are expensive clothes of red silk,
Also, your body seems somehow slimmer, Of a sudden
it strikes you — Reinhardt was wearing red! You have
somehow been magically transferred into his body!
Then this Mencius before you is in fact Reinhardt.
And, occupying your body, Mencus is ... where?
Reinhardt groans, and you realize (hal the bullet-
wound you inflicted on Mencius has re-opened wilhout
Tmagery lo close it, Reinhardl is in pain. You staunch the
wound as best you car. then tum your atlenlion lo
planning. Turn to 67.

364
At the bazagr, you creep among the tents unti] you
reach a central, deared area. Here 3 crowd is watching
Saba perform on a makeshift siage. His dathing is

dist, bu iL doesn’ resemble anything,
‘wn land, Sab, heavily made up is curzently
making profusion of si searves appeat [roe vacious
parle of his body, linging them oc to a table [hal is
already hafen with eabbils el, cups, balls and evan 2
little yell: bbrd ina cage. Bis build seem la be right,
and his haircolour and cial shape match, but yoo
‘cannot be cerizin that this is Mencius because of his
heavy. makeap, (F you wait te ambush and
magician when he finishes his show. bse 40 343
prefer la follow hin: discreetly, turn le x34 Oth
yor ay give up on Saba; mack a cross an turn £0 24%,

365
‘You continue #0 deseun, Faking geesl care, Finally
you come acioss a mounlain village, lull o
rougleskinned barzosiins. ‘Though cule, te
alter you for a while then help you travel to 2
lage, This way, leapleageing irom wilage lo vilage.
you make your way torvards the coast. You slowly
acquire soune faliarty wilh the language (note dover
teasic kal’ on your Adbeulime Sheet iit not already
lbeze. The villages get proguessively Inger, and finally
you arrive at the sca coast, where you ener a town.

366

Hore you manage le ubtain sco passage round the
coast fo Bhe main ely, which, you Rave learn is called
Kallamehr. So 1s thal you finally alight (rom the ship
in the strangest cily you have ever seen, the perilous
vuaze that is Kallameo

bout Retiharat
did't maka Tt oul. You pul some distance between
you and the cave, runing back the way you came
‘wun you reach the river, exhouslion eateles op wilh
you and you sink to the ground and instantly fall
asleep.

Wen you wake up. its dawn. You have ny idea how
Jong you have slept, but yea do Know thal you are
ravenously hungry: lose 1 poing of sralarita, You will,
have lo fine! some food soon, er starve. Your best
chanve is f follow the river and hope lo find a
sellement, As yout climb wearily lo your fect, there's
loud squeak Gom your clothing, and a fury, weasel-
Tike head peers oul al vo, This i too euch! You ery
lo theo the posey animal sway, bul it fas olber
ideas: 3 sinks Ils leelh Inlo the dosh of your hand,
ripping had as you 3

367-363

and Jeaps nimbly away, disappearing down a hole.
Cursing lhe sharp-[anged rodent, you wrap some cloth
round your injured hand Luckily the bite Is not very
severe (nole down ‘Sneeka Scar on your Adventure
Steel}. You fallow the bank of the river downslream.
Tum fo 110.

367
Yes!’ a familiar voice pipes up. There's something you
mus! do for me!’

Sure enough, it’s Reinhardt, Somehow he mus! have
evaded the Shambling Shauca and been rescued by
this svizard, Jf (he box marked ‘Switch’ on your
Adounlure Sheet is licked, lum lo 266; olhenvise, fum
to 133.

Ta, Ma.

be

366
‘Do you have any experience of disposing of this kind
of villatn?’ he asks,

You laugh. ‘[t’s my life's work. you, tel! him.

‘Good, then I have only one piece of advice for you —
star-brigsht, ] am bor in the heart of the mountain, bul my
true home is on the brow of beauty, [ am a key lo your

363

success.” Baffled, you ask tie cryptic captain what he
tneans, ‘Some cal] me the Riddling Reaver,’ he explains,
Though to be honest | do more riddling than reaving.
Haven't you ever heard it said that the journey Js more
important than the deslination; lhat finding a solution to
a problem is more important than the solution Jlsel/?’

You think back over your career as a magehunter. All
that ever mattered to you was defeating evil — nothing
gives you more satisfaction than buming a mage. ‘No,
I can't say I have,’ you reply.

The Riddting Reaver, apparcotly offended by your
frank admission, grumpily direds you to a cabin, then
altends to his ship’s duties. The journey ts smoolh and
uneventful. Jn the ship's cabin you find a first aid kit,
which you may use if you are injured — roll one dice
to find oul how many points of sTAMINA You recover.
A few hours laler, shrouded In dense fog, the ship
comes 10 4 siop. The Reaver ushers you off the deck,
on to a cliff top, Wilhoul so much as a farewell, he
relums lo his strange vessel and sels sail once more.
The fog starts to clear and, a short distance away. lies
a cily. Since lhe Reaver brought you here, you can
anly assume that Mencius lies within ils walls, sa you
make hasle, passing into its mazy streets. Add a to
your LUCK score and turn lo Lao.

36-370

369,
Hungry as you are, you make your stay back alam
the route you came by. until you reat the place
whore you arrived and the remains of the fire you lit
‘yeslerday, Now you may [ollow the river dovmstream
um Io 245) oF cmb the mouniain to gel a beltur
viow of the terain turn lo 338)

370
The old storyleller thanks you [ar your money and in
anaver to your enquities, slats analher slary. ‘One of
Burah-Brshar's fends veas notoriously miean,allhowigh
he was rich, he never gave anything lo anybody. Une
day, this miser was walking, oear the river with his
fiends when he slipped and fell n, “Vlelp!” he shouted,
"Lean svi”

His iands ran to help, and one erouched oa the bank,
slietcied oul hig hand and called, “Give ene yout hal

370

= Ill pull you oul!” The ralser continued ta bob up
‘nd down and call for help, but he dida'l give his
fflend his hand, nalher of his friends tried the same
ing, but again the riser failed to give him his hand,
Then Burah-Bashar sal, “Take my hand and J will pe
you oul” "The miser took his band and Burah-Bashor
polled him out of the water, Burah-Bathar explained
“When you say’ ‘Givel lo him, he does nolhing, bul
when you say Take!’ he lakest”

You ask the sloryteller again if he has seen any
Soreigners in the city, bul he fust Taunches nto. yet
anolher Thurah-Bashar slory, Mi you have the word
tral! on your Adsefurs Shae, turn lo 25, IT you do
rot, mark across on it and burn lo 24s,

afl 37

3741

‘My Lale concems a true prince among the Genii, his
name Al-Ra’ad al-Kaalf, who dwelt Jn the Omnipresen!
Tower in days gone by, From this place he could
visit any land that struck his fancy, and he was
welcomed ai the courts of the mighty, both Genie
and mortal. But an enemy. jealous of hn power,
resolved la put an end lo him Conmng upan the
tower by stealth, he bricked AJ]-Ra'ad al-:Kasif inte
wasting his power, lhen altacked him whlle he was
weak,’

AL-RA‘’AD AL-KASIF SKILL G STAMINA 10

Canduct the battle between yourself and Al-Ra‘ad al-
Kast the Genie Prince as normal However, nole that
you cannot dix if your sTaMINA is redhiccd to zeTo oF
less, buon Lo 1g1. If you defeal AbRa‘ad a)-Kaaif, tum
to 228,

72
Al-Bakbuk is overjoyed lo receive the preclous gift
from you. He hugy you warmly, kissing you on bath
cheeks, then hurries off to present you with 2 parting
git, which tums out to be an mivicalely embsoldered
robe (cross the jevrellery of ruby ting off your Adaor
ture Sheri), “This Uriviel itern may assis! you, says Al-
Bakbuk, ‘as it is the robe of a relired VWixict of the
Caliph’s court, People wil] treat you with respec! while
you are wearing this robe.” Allhough you have litle
idéa of whal 4 ‘vizler’ or a ‘caliph’ may be, you accept
the gill gracefully (mate down the vizier's robe on
your Adventure Sheet), Al-Bakbuk also advises you, if

Doers

tx oS

alo.
in ine
at
—=-

= ;*e
iy

373-374

you aré in Kallamehr, to seek our his brother, the
storyteller, Al-Haddar. Now will you:

Co shopping? Turn to 148
Try to pick up the Lrail? Turn to 343
Head for the cily of Kallamehr? Turn to 348

374

This Is a feeming city in a slrange land. Who knows
how many mages infest it? Since you don'l have
any of Mencus's blocd, you have little choice of
methods, If you have Kurl with you and wish to ute
him, tum to ge Olherrise, you may draw a Holy
Symbol (tam lo 535). If you prefer lo try samething
elie. return to 442 and choose another option.

374

You esignale thal il will take you several days lo
reoch the city. You set off al an easy peor, knowing
that for such a joumey it’s bes 1o avoid avet-exeriion.
Unfortunalely, the land you are travelling through 5
almost devoid of edible vegetation. If you have no
Provisions, deducl 2 points from your stamina. You
tee no signs of habitation or human lite al first, then
you come across a road — a promising sign, and
vomething which should speed your journey consider-
ably. Tum lo 76.

373-376

375
The thing grunts once more — the resemblance to a
hurnan voice Is uncanny, though you can make out no
recognizable words. Then it circles you once .,, and
athicks! Tum lo 338.

376

You holf run, half tumble down the steps of the towor
and, after glancing back to make sure you aren't
pursued, Jose yourself in the bustle of the market.
Your heart pounds frantically against your rib cage,
but you find a quiet back street and, breathing ye 9
compose yourself. You now know where Mencius (s
to be found. Write the number '512' on your Adventure
Sheel and erase the word ‘trail’, [f you are given the
choice of going to the place where Mencius is, you
may turn to this number if you wish. Now mark four
crostes On your Adcmture Sheri, then tum io 244.

——— re

I77-~-379

377
Before long you are back at lhe town, However bad
the gale guards are, they can’t be worse than lhe hairy
horror. Now you understand why these people pul

walls round |heir Llowns. Turn to 40.

378

The Genie appears in a clap of thunder, and you are
gratified to see that Menclus falters. You command
lhe Genie to allack, Mencius defends himself wilh
blasts of power, tearlng ragged holes in the magical
creature, You take sheller from the battle, but il soon
becomes evident that Mencius is winning. If you have
(he word ‘reflect’ on your Adventure Slwet, turn to 88;
otherwise, turn te 203.

379
You lear strips of cloth from Mencius's robe and
fashion a makeshift bandage, Nexl, in order Lo tie him
to earth, you lake off your jacket of undyed cloth , -.
but it is no longer undycd. Jt is a fine red jerkin,
carefully stitched in the latest style. You have na
recollection of changing clothes. Now lhat you look,
your sword has also changed. into a fancy, bejewelled

3Bo

rapier. As you ponder this myslery, Mencius stirs. At
his first words, ‘What sorcery is this?, [he awful truth
dawns on you: Mcncius has switched bodies, This is
Reinhardt before you, imprisoned in the mage’s weak-
ened form! When he discovers what has happened,
Reinhardt loses his usual bluster, begging you to set
things right. Turn to 67.

380

The journey back to the town seems to take a very
short time, You feel sure that Mencius cannot be here,
otherwise the ritual with the Holy Symbol would not
have led you outside the town walls. Where would he
gol You know that he likes cilies — places bustling
with people who can be tricked and manipulated, The
nearest cily lo this own is Kallamehr and it doesn’t
take you long to discover how to get there, Turn io
348.

—

| 561-3354

331

Watching the physician work on Reinhardl. you are
surprised at his methods, Rather than caulerizing the
wound with a red-hot bar, he cleans il (horoughly
then ribs il lightly with leaves, before wrapping a
bandage cound Reinhardt’; slomach, Reinhardt, who
has been silent all the lime you were In the lavem,
now seems te cheer up. Nole dawn ‘bandage’ in the
Companion box of your Adveniurc Sheef, and change
the SKILL score Eo 6 and the STAMINA score to 10,
Your benefactor insisls on retuming lo the lavem, and
Reinhardt goes along with this. Tum lo 55.

43a
Note lhat if you gave the vizier a sword and if you
have no olher weapon. you will fight with your
Attack Strength reduced by 2 paints. If you gave the
vizier a vizier’s robe, lura io 227; otherwise turn fo
3.46.

393-134

383

“You really know how lo draw attention bo yourself,’ a
familiar voice whispers to you, You look around, There
is NO One near you who might have spoken, ‘Of course,
[ tend lo be a little more discreet in my activiltes’ the
voice continues, ‘fou slill have no idea where it is
coming from, bul you recognize the sarcastic lane — it
is Mencius? Your sixth sense, which has saved you on
countless occasions, directs you to a run-down house, a
little way ahead of you, Mencius's mocking voice
continues to echo in your skull as you leap through the
epen window. Your instinct was night. Mencius himself
stands there, chanting and gesturing. Tum to 91.

384

You search the wizard’s bocly and find a small pouch
conlaining a number of sicange things: feathers, bones,
liny jars of powder and so on. Note dawn lhe wizarel’s
pouch on your Adweulure Sheet, Further along the
funnel, you come upon the wrzard's hame, There is
more strange magical paraphernalia here, but nothing
that strikes you as useful. However, a pan of stew
hangs over a fire, reminding you how hungry you are.
The stew is far too spicy, but in your current condition
you could eal anything, su you wolf it down gralefully.
Alter a short rest you face a choice of ways. You can
retrace your sleps to the place where you arrived and
follow the river in the hope of Anding civilization
iturn to 245, unless you have ‘basic kal’ or ‘Kurt’
weitlen down on your Adventure Sheet, in which case
luriy lo 68) or you can continue along the valley (lum
to 128),

585-387

365

Por some reason the young [ellow is showlng you
your own reflection in a mirror: either he has misunder-
stood you or this is some strange local custom. You
try lo explain once more. bul he beckons you claser as
if to share a secret. ‘Kallamebr! Kallamehz? he says ina
voice full of mystery and hidden meaning, Suddenly
you fee] 4 slight movement, and you realize what his
game is — he's trying to pick your pocket! With
reflexes born of a hundred fights, you leap backwards,
drawing your broadsword in a single fluid motion, In
turn, he pulls out a wickedly curved knife and slashes
al you wilh if,

PICKPOCKET SKILLS STAMINA 7

Wf you defeat the pickpocket in four or fewer Attack
Reunds, tun lo 102. Jf you are slill fighting after four
Allack Rounds, tum Io 204

586
You can relneve your 2 Gold Pieces. Apart from
these, Al-Fakik has nothing of value in his hut —
nothing Ihal vou can fincl, at any rate. Jf you have the
word ‘trail’ on your Anprulive Sheet, lum to aes.
Othenvise, mark a cross on it and turn lo age

387
‘l obey!’ the crealure announces, clapping its hands
and yanishing. AL-Bakbuk gets to his fect.

“Truly you ace blessed?’ he cries. ‘You are the master of
a Genie — one of the Efreel Servants of Hazah.’ With a
368

start, you realize you can now understand him perfectly
(erase the word ‘basic’ from your Arlventure Sheel), You
now know ihe secret of the ring. If you wish to use it,
when you are Lold thal you may, add up the digits
making up the paragraph you are at (for exarnple, this
paragraph is 587; 3+8+7=18) then subtract the
result from the in order to find the new
paragraph number you should turn to, Now will you:

Summon the Genie to reward

Al-Bakbuk? Turn to 246
Summon the Genie to lake you

shaigh! lo Remhardi? Turn to 344
Continue wihoul summoning the

Genk? Turn lo 345

aaa

368
Exhausting though it is, you drag yourself up thre
mountainside in lhe glare of the sun, Luckily. you
seem to have arrived on the tallest hill in ther paris
and you soon have a fine view of the surroundings,
Finally you arrive at the summit. Although your vilion
is limited by the heal haze, you can see for many
kilometres in all directions. Your cye follows the silver
Tibbon of lhe river al whose bank you arrived, If Ln
Joined by several mountain streams and. some way off,
passes [hrough a town. At this range you can’t see
people, but the signs of habitation are unmistakable.
On the distant horizon a glimmer betokens cither the

389

isa of a mighty lake or civer, As your eye follows it
around? you realize it mus! be |he sea. You can make
oul a dark area there — you wouddn’t swear te it, but It
could be a cily, Turing further around, you look
down al a range of low mountains and Joothills, Only
a few kilometres distant, you see a thin plume of
amoke ascending. Could il be a village? Do you:

Climb back down ta the river and

follaw il downstream? Tum la 195
Head for the coasi, and the ‘city7 Turn toe az
Make your way towards the plume

of amoke? Tum to 302

369
One passage seems a good as another, so you hurry
alorg the lefl-hand tunnel, After a few metres a voice
similar to the previews ont calls out to you from dose
by, Startled, you realize that there is a hidden alcove
in which tivo inore dwellers in darkness are silling.
Keeping your head shrouded by the cloak’s hood, you
grunt and hurry on, hoping your blulf will work.
Cerlainly, no alacm is raised and there is ne pursuil. Il
you have a serraled knile. lum lo 273; olhenvise, turn

lo 4a.

390-394

490
You hide behind a drape and wait. Time passes. You
doze lightly, finally being woken by the sound of
yoices and sameone entering the room You spring
oul, weapon al lhe ready, lo find yourself facing an
ald man and woman. They slare at you Jn surprise,
backing away from your naked blade. Apparently the
thief showed you inte someone else’s room! You put
your sword away, apologize to the couple, and beat a
~ hasty retreal. Having wasted lime wailing, you should
now slarl looking for Mencius. Tum to 193.

39%

Unslinging lhe rope from your belt, you loop il round
the sorcerer and pull it iight before he can think lo
tesist. The book drops from his hand, and he mouths
further Slrange sounds. You Hghten the rope and he
squeals in pain. [t is unusual that he can be hurt sa
easily, but if may be a ruse. If you strangle him io
death, tur to 299. If you change your mind and Free
him instead, tutn to zat

392-393

392

You hurry up the Slight of stone steps to the chamber
above. Here Mencius is waiting for you Once again
you are facing an enemy, pilling your wils and determi-
nation against his black arts, Bul lhis time his power is
greater than [hat of any mage you haye ever faced. As
if to flaunt this, he is hovering a metre or so above the
floor of the chamber, waiting for you te make (he first
move, What will you do? If you have the word
‘narcolepsismy’ and wish lo use ii, burn to zo, [f you
have a pistol and wish ta shool Mencius, lun to 185.
If you have a gold hex and wish to throw il, fum to
a2a. [Ff you have a cuby ring, you may use ils secret
unless you have the word ‘genle’ writen down, in
which case nothing happens. If you can perform none
of these actions, tum fo 92.

393

Before long, night falls. You are still in (he middle of
nowhere, but you have slept rough before, If you have
a Book of Craft, tum to 263_ I! you do nol. but you do
have a shackles key, a Sneeka Scar or a Shauca Scar,
furn to 478, Otherwise, check your Adventure Sheed. If
the box marked ‘Switch’ in Ihe Companion section is
ticked, lum to 84. JF it ts nod licked, Eurn lo 226,

3Q4—395

594
The building ts an informal arena. Spectators sit on

raised wooden stands and walch the progress of a
fight, conducted in the creular aréa and fenced in with
what look like small boals, You can’t see the fight
from where you are, so you climb up the stands.
There’s a scream from fhe arena, followed by a cheer,
a5 lhe current malch ends. The conlestonls leave the
arena before you can gel a dear view. You do spot
Saleem, however, and are surprised to see lhal his
monkey is wearing clothes. Greeting him politely, you
say the name of Harun al-Harun. He lets oul a bellow
of rage and fastens hve huge, hairy hands round your
neck, Before you can resist. he has flung you down
into the arena. “Here's your next competitor!’ roars the
monkey-loving Saleem,

Your atlempis lo climb up the boals and escape are
folled by ihe spectators al the top, who are now
eagerly belling on the match. Then one of lhe boals
slides lo one side and out strides a creature composed
entirely of spikes, wilh wicked black eyes buried in a
foul-Jeatured face.

SPIKE FIEND SKILL 20 STAMINA 7

[F you win, tum lo 565.

395
(t's hard work climbing up dhe mountain in the punish-
ing heat of the sun, but eventually you make it, This
hill is prominent and, despile lhe heat haze, you can
see for kilometres. Your eye follows the silver ribbon
396-Jo7

of (he river at whose bank you antyed. It is joined by
several mountain streams and, some way off, it passes
through a lown, You can’t make out any people at this
distance, bul there are definitely buildings of some
kind On the distant! horizon a glimmer betokens Uhre
sea, or perhaps a mighty river or lake, As your eye
follows if around, you realize thal it must be lhe sea
You can make out a dark area lhere which may be a
city, Tuming around further, you look down at a
range of low hills. Only a few kilometres distant, you
can see a Lhin plume of smoke. Will you

Climb back down to the river and

follow it downstream? Tum to 195
Head for the coast, and the ‘city’? Turn to az
Make your way Lowards the plume

of smoke? Tum lo 502

396
“Yes! Reinhardt pipes up. There's something you must

do for me,” If the box marked ‘Swilch' on your Adzenture
Sheel is licked, turn to 266: otherwise, turn to 171.

397
As the feast draws to an end and lhe guests leave, you
prepare lo cetire, bul Al-Haddar beckons you near. If
you have a companion, you nalice (hat he is snoring
happily.

‘Now is a good lime for stories,” your host says
quielly. You thought he had spent the whole evening
Ee(Ung stories, and you Say so, but A)-Haddar chuckles.
‘Those svere the kind of slory my beloved brother, Al-

396

Bakbuk the Prater, likes — but my rea! slories are a
ditferent matler,’ He ushers you into a comfortable
drawing room. seltles down on a pile of cushions, and
starts his tale. ‘Many years ago, in a certain city far
away, there lived an upright man whose name was
Jaddar. He had made a name for himself by catching
ciminals, especially those who dabbled in magic in
order lo cheat their viclims. At the bme of my story.
Jaddar had spent a whole year chasing a villain by the
name of Abdu) A]-Azrad whom he had pursued from
dly to cty, crossing mountains, seas and deseris, He
finally caught up with Abdul Al-Azrad Jn a forest and
hurrying doser, prepared to shool the fiend with his
magic bow, But Abdul Al-Azrad was a wily wizard.
Just as the magic arrow was loosed from Jaddar’s bow,
he transformed himself into an animal avoiding the
missile. Which do you think Al-Azrad turned himself
into, a snake or 3 bird?’

If you say a snake, turnto 54. yousay a bird. tum to 28a.

He picks up his book and starts again on his speil.
You try Lo imitate the sounds and remember the ges-
fures, and you def Into slumber, having successfully

3S0-

commuted thee gel] to aemory. Noke denen the ward
‘narcolepeisr' on your Adomhor Slaw. Tun to 3.40

31”
The harsmnen have litle patience with you Drawing
ocudly curecd serorde they eteeel them horses ared attack

exer STAMINA
Fel HIGHWAYMAN ? 6
second HIGHWAYMAN 6 ?

if you arc alone, fight them one at a thme {if you win.
turn to $0). |f you have a companion, be is forced to

your ‘s Gght ageret the secord bigterazy-
wor . Fhe he nothirg to
St = 8 weEpan your companion mith hes Attach
Strength reed by 3 pot you aay tog ton
highwayman, you may en yongage We second; but if you
do so, your companion will stop fighting. If your

an, Tet ‘secon Wiakwayinen ‘it Wan

until your opponent also dies before attacking you. If
both highwayrmen are killed, turn to 249.

408
All feeling diusppears Geet from your limbs, then from

smwdcre the flaw, Reinhard) Is maraling al one mde.

4ne

Somehow you have returned to the Margrave’'s castle.
non GAAS Se coulis on we thot kee

sages while you

until you come to Great Hall. Hore, looks ac
if @ battle is about to be waged. The chamberiain,
backed by a contingent of the castle guards, is shouting
at the captain. who has a of soldiers, weapons al
the ready. As you and walk the length of the
hall, however, they fall silent. Reinhardt seats himself

this day forward, he will be true to his word. Not only
does he throw his full weight behind your pursuit of
evil, but he rewards you with great wealth and privi-

langusage thal you ho, uhare. He offers
you &@ permanent position ax his chief retainer. You, of
course, respectfully decline: you have better
Aoi Figg Fass

ALLANSIA
Stove Fackvon and I Licligstons

‘The wusid of Tian fs an earemely dangetus pace,
‘Mankind and i alles Radle n fonedsetlemene, fo
Deyond the ale oul che wa hinds eh anon tree
‘inten, Out nthe vost, re utes War wih exch
father Re dominance. Swrage mimsers oar ar Wil fe
fateh of fend, Eel soteavze rea thee San aed
far baile, Mo one, surely ould yenute out tre sue ee
hospitable places = ules the eta sere eo great hers
Feud’ posi ei

DEATHMOOR
Steue Fahson ond Fan Livingstone

“The requesy, brought 6} carter plecon, Js eee, Am exe
tsvenced sdtenlorer ir desperatly nasi in te dat
Ci of Aion fea mio of deny mpercanse an ade
{ester Ike YOU. When you mie tbe coon of King
Fomane, the orgency of the tmion “Secomee ter
‘Test, ine beso Place Royyl,  mising, boieved
Bilnapped, She most he ered, andthe must be rescued

‘aforeunsiey, in his baste, King Jonthane it alee
ven the quest to abother your deadly lvl Fang-ren of
Fay! You know that he only person suitable fortis heroic
fas is you. Can you prove tat sow ar the oe o sce
the princes ~and mse nmporany had he, wherever she
‘ay elcid, before she cat be harmed? Hin, fo re
KNIGHTS OF DOOM,
Steve Jazhuen ard Fam Livingstone

Fox yer the brave Kalghse Temper af die Demeniery
hve lept the pee Ruddlesone, But oy an ence
ches enwabene Ih land de aogerer Belpre
etuzed for the dead pd ll bin POW 12 BI
‘Shape and erat hit peel Ungar,

"To cams hi pln sutecedy the evil sxcrrer fe cle
{he Sereins of tar Kebabs af Cham, One ber bain =
‘YOU! ~ ar eres droeah snc plunged ma ma, pos
cree the comey Piet aid Cteramne ie dent oy a
an

THE TROLLTOOTH WARS
Seve Fachion

[stared th an ambush, Wen Hainer Div’ blood =
Gye Hil Gobdits moun thar eld ca oe ‘Singer
Caravan, Unlede they falue Wil dramne omega

"Will Eaker Dien chars of Daurcen Marre
‘ead proce smotiout? Toe maar ie ber, In ihe Sen
ighung Fancy novel
DEMONSTEALER
‘Mare Gascoigne

1 stared with « buceery, Boene aloft on che back of ap
Troneace fat aster ilo bees inte the soe oF eke
soraices Yantrome, Gulded ‘ty. long-dead solee, he
‘monares co make of wit an anion rel Whoue seeets
ou opel dors ad destarion for a Alana?

‘Chadds Deconane is soon on she Wall of Ue ie, Bu a
the guest goss err longer, bt nagging doubie eb te
over af sveery ca ito fiahonares. ‘The sci lag [ar
‘gd northern Allen, nthe Pees Corse he cit
lng allepeays of Rimony whete Datknane' wghonres
‘come Mesh? Forte Ue has ae the ancien seo e
$unatin her o help i this sorcerour weak, Denne
‘who ave oe bound By the conaualas af earthy Row
ve eso tre una

A few brave companions accompany Duckman bit wil
they be enc = anim gine to top tse te rom Un
locking the fal sstex of Vantoma'e til Demoaietr,
th sttond Fighing Fanioyy novel ine seies dat BEA
‘sts Fhe Trtrooeh War, hold all se ser,

SHADOWMASTER
4 Livingstone

Chou sats heed and of oreiern Alenia. Cc! bese
kr rad the villages, usec Sod long Uony
(Now, thowghy the licks ae fe search fh ease (aE
‘rere soluble eg old, Defen bythe tuna laden,
Gey are ab pursus of the ay tbat wll uoloc Ihe vary
nti of fe and earth hl

‘The sursrer Yezteomo, for so tong che selFappoted
rrorsion ofthe laude around Darksood Revet, sans
{aba Sly by ite Rs esurrymen are put vo the or
Whik Chaean Dactmans clove ar band, Vaztrome einbaks
cs questo dleoter Uc abrce OF te and de sii=

‘What Guy discover ines sthen Chace roles, nothing can
ver be We Ie seems. Fue ides ZolyJaniy dea ee
‘nde and dares Use dep WADhin he lght. Can Ya
‘Wow and Laeemans deen there tine  ticeore he
‘al mosey of the shadow? Only Shaetmaser, We ed
Fishing Fancsy noel can co yo!

Stagger in ani evil Fane

YOU are a Magchintes, tracking down evil-
doers and bringing them to justice. Your tristy
Hintlock pistol and fine steel broadsword have
seen-many fights, and you haye the knowledge,
skill and equipment to capture the eraftiest. |
sorcerer. But disnstet strikes; Magic drags you
far from your familiar world, to a land of
treasures, trips and treachery. ‘

Strange tales und bizarre transformations must
all be endured if you ure to win through, defeat)
your enemy and returnto your homeland,

Fic ETING PANTARE Hlh WORLD'S MOST
EOLULAW ADVENTURE G ASENOK SEIIES

liver ttastation by tle

otra0

40

a
