ur #100
Aust on ah
(racummanded)

CAN e808

{ >f

Cover illustration by Les Edwards

iy

|

A half-forgotten evil has arisen from the grave
to stalk the Old World in search of fresh blood
and new victims to enslave. Count Reiner
Heydrich, undead Vampire Lord, is ancient
beyond the reckoning of mortals. This time,
however, there is someone on his trail, a brave
hero who is determined that he shall not suc-
ceed in his evil plans. That someone is YOU!

Puy 1

|

7

as

" . ” 45 )
. :
i
>
é - “4 ,
. be —“
4

:
:

'
|

ay ©

.|

:
Steve Jackson and Ian Livingstone

present

Revenge of the
by Keith Martin

Illustrated by Martin McKenna
4/4 |

mas
" a ee

poe tS

~~ i

nes

PUFFIN BOOK
PUFFIN BOOKS CONTENTS
Published by the Penguin Group
Penguin Books Ltd, 27 Wrights Lane, London w8 51z, England
Penguin Books USA Inc., 375 Hudson Street, New York, New York 10014, USA
Penguin Books Australia Ltd, Ringwood, Victoria, Australia
Penguin Books Canada Ltd, 10 Alcorn Avenue, Toronto, Ontario, Canada M4v 382

Penguin Books (NZ) Ltd, 182-190 Wairau Road, Auckland 10, New Zealand IN TRODUCTION
Penguin Books Ltd, Registered Offices: Harmondsworth, Middlesex, England 7
First published 1995
13579108642 ADVENTURE SHEET
; - 22
Concept copyright © Steve Jackson and Ian Livingstone, 1995
Text copyright © Keith Martin, 1995
Illustrations copyright © Martin McKenna, 1995 BACKGROUND
Map copyright © Jonathan Green, 1995 24
All rights reserved
4
The moral right of the author has been asserted REVENGE OF THE VAMPIRE
29

Typeset by Datix International Ltd, Bungay, Suffolk
Filmset in Monophoto Palatino
Made and printed in Great Britain by Clays Ltd, St Ives ple

Except in the United States of America, this book is sold subject
to the condition that it shall not, by way of trade or otherwise, be lent,
re-sold, hired out, or otherwise circulated without the publisher’s
prior consent in any form of binding or cover other than that in
which it is published and without a similar condition including this
condition being imposed on the subsequent purchaser
INTRODUCTION

Before embarking on your adventure, you must first
discover your strengths and weaknesses. You use dice
to work out your initial sKiLL, STAMINA, LUCK and
FAITH scores. On pages 22-3 there is an Adventure
Sheet which you may use to record the details of your
adventure. On it you will find boxes for recording
your SKILL, STAMINA, LUCK and FAITH scores. You are
advised either to record your scores on the Adventure
Sheet in pencil or to make photocopies of the sheet for
use in future attempts to complete the adventure.

Skill, Stamina, Luck and Faith
Skill

Roll one dice. Add 6 to this number and enter the
total (it will be between 7 and 12) in the sxiLt box on
the Adventure Sheet.

Stamina
Roll two dice. Add 12 to the number rolled and enter
this total (between 14 and 24) in the STAMINA box on
the Adventure Sheet.

Luck
Roll one dice. Add 6 to this number and enter this
total (again, between 7 and 12) in the Luck box on
the Adventure Sheet.
Faith
Roll one dice. Add 3 to this number and enter this
total (it will be between 4 and g) in the FAITH box on
the Adventure Sheet.

For reasons that will be explained below, skit,
STAMINA and LUCK scores change constantly during
an adventure, and FAITH will also change from time to
time. You must keep an accurate record of these
scores, and for this reason you are advised either to
write small in the boxes or to keep an eraser handy.
But never rub out your Initial scores.

Although you may be awarded additional sxILt,
STAMINA, LUCK and MAGIC points, the totals of these
may never exceed their Initial value, except on very rare
occasions when you will be specifically told so.

Your skit score reflects your swordsmanship and
general fighting expertise; the higher it is, the better.
Your STAMINA score reflects your general constitution,
your will to survive, your determination and overall
fitness; the higher your sTAMINA score, the longer
you will be able to survive. Your Luck score indicates
how naturally lucky a person you are (and whether
you will be able to avoid hazards and perils during
your adventure). Luck is very much a fact of life in the
fantasy world you are about to explore! Your FAITH
scores indicates your purity of heart and belief in the
forces of goodness. A high FAITH score may enable
you to force some evil creatures to flee from you
when they sense your faith and valour; but it also
means that they are more likely to notice you and

8

react to you in a hostile way! You will learn more
about the importance of FAITH as you make your way
through this adventure.

Magic

During your adventure you may find certain magic
items, although at first you may neither realize that
they are magical nor know exactly what it is that they
do. Should you find such objects, the relevant para-
graphs will explain how to use them or what you may
attempt to do with them. To begin here, however,
you are not a wielder of magic but a brave warrior,
and you must overcome your enemies by your wits
and courage, and by the use of your sword!

Battles

As your adventure progresses you will often find
yourself in a situation where you have to fight a
creature of some sort. An option to flee may be given,
but if it is not — or if you choose to attack the creature
anyway — you must resolve the battle in the way
described below.

First record the creature’s SKILL and STAMINA scores in
the first vacant Monster Encounter Box on your Adven-
ture Sheet. The scores for each creature are given in the
book each time you have an encounter.

The sequence of combat is then:

1. Roll two dice for the creature and add its sKILL

9
score to the total rolled. This is the creature’s Attack
Strength.

2. Roll two dice for yourself and add this to your
current sKILL score. This total is your Attack Strength.

3. If your Attack Strength is higher than that of your
opponent, you have wounded it, so proceed to Step 4.
If the creature’s Attack Strength is higher than yours,
it has wounded you, so proceed to Step 5. If both
Attack Strengths are the same, you have avoided each
other's blows — start the next Attack Round from step
1, above.

4. You have wounded the creature: subtract 2 points
from its STAMINA score. You may use your LUCK here
to do additional damage (see below). Proceed to step 6.

5. The creature has wounded you: subtract 2 points
from your own sTAMINA score. Again, you may use
LUCK at this stage (see below).

6. Make the appropriate adjustments to either the
creature’s or your Own STAMINA score (and to your
LUCK score if you used Luck see below).

7. Begin the next Attack Round by returning to step
1. This sequence continues until either your sTAMINA
score or that of the creature you are fighting has been
reduced to zero or below (death).

Fighting More Than One Creature

If you come across more than one opponent in a
particular encounter, the instructions on that page will

10

tell you whether you must fight the creatures singly
or all together.

If you are instructed to fight them one at a time, the
battle proceeds exactly as described above. However,
as soon as you defeat the first creature listed you must
immediately begin to fight the second creature listed,
and you must continue fighting until all your enemies
are slain (or until you are). You may not pause between
fighting your opponents for any reason (such as taking
some step to restore lost STAMINA points).

If you are instructed to fight all the creatures at once,
the procedure is different. In step 1 of the combat
sequence above, you must calculate the Attack
Strength for each of the creatures facing you. In step
3, if the Attack Strength of any of your opponents is
higher than yours, you must go at once to step 5. If
you have the highest Attack Strength of all, go to step
4 and you may choose which of your opponents to
strike. Again, the battle goes on until either of you or
all your enemies are slain.

Luck

At various times during your adventure, either in
battles or when you come across situations in which
you could be either lucky or unlucky (details of these
are given when the situation occurs), you may call
on your LucK to make the outcome more favourable
to you. But beware! Using tuck is a risky business
and if you are unlucky, the results could be
disastrous.

il
instructed to Test your Skill, ‘adding 2 to the number
rolled’. What this means is that when you roll two
dice you must add 2 to the total; if you had rolled a 4
and a 3, for example, your modified total would be
4 + 3+ 2= 9. You then compare this final total
with your skiLL to discover the outcome of Testing

your Skill.

Testing your Spot Skill

This is a special case of Testing your Skill, and it applies
when you may or may. not spot (discover) something
hidden or concealed. The procedure here is exactly the
same as for Testing your Skill, but the relevant para-
graph will instead instruct you to Test your Spot Skill.

Restoring Skill, Stamina, Luck and Faith

Skill
Your sKILL score will not change often during your
adventure. Occasionally a paragraph may give an
instruction to increase or decrease your SKILL score.
Your SKILL score cannot exceed its Initial level unless
you are specifically instructed to the contrary. You
may have the chance during this adventure to get
your hands on an item, such as a magical weapon,
which will increase your Attack Strength. If you
manage to acquire two such weapons, you cannot gain
bonuses to your Attack Strength for both of them —
you cannot use two Magic Swords at the same time!
Likewise, certain kinds of armour will give a bonus to

14

your Attack Strength — but obviously you cannot
wear more than one suit of armour at a time!

Stamina and Provisions
Your sTAMINA score will go up and down frequently
during your adventure as you fight enemies and under-
take arduous tasks. As you near your goal, your
STAMINA score may drop dangerously low, and battles
become particularly risky, so be careful!

Your backpack contains enough Provisions for 12
meals. You may rest and eat at any time except when
fighting. Eating a meal restores 4 STAMINA points.
When you eat a meal, add 4 points to your current
STAMINA score and deduct 1 from the Provisions on
your Adventure Sheet: A separate Provisions Remaining
box is provided on your Adventure Sheet for recording
details of Provisions. You have a long way to go, so
use your Provisions wisely! Remember that your
STAMINA score may never exceed its Initial value,
unless you are specifically instructed otherwise in a
paragraph.

There will be times during your adventure when you
will be told that you must eat a meal. When you have
to do this, deduct 1 point from the Provisions on your
Adventure Sheet, but you do not regain any lost
STAMINA for doing this. If you are told to eat a meal
but you don’t have any provisions left, you must
subtract 2 points from your current STAMINA Score.

During your adventure, however, you should be able
to acquire extra Provisions to add to the store you

15
The procedure for using your Luck is as follows: roll
two dice. If the total rolled is less than or equal to
your current LUCK score, you have been Lucky and
the result will go in your favour. If the number rolled
is higher than your current LUCK score, you have been
Unlucky and you will be penalized.

This procedure is known as Testing your Luck. Each
time you Test your Luck, you must subtract 1 point
from your current Luck score. Thus you will soon
realize that, the more you rely on your Lucx, the more
risky this will become.

Using Luck in Battles

In certain paragraphs of this book you will be told that
you must Test your Luck and you will find out the
consequences of being Lucky or Unlucky. However, in
battles you always have the option of using your LUCK,
either to inflict more serious damage on a creature you
have just wounded or to minimize the effects of a
wound your opponent has just caused you.

If you have just wounded the creature, you may Test
your Luck as described above. If you are Lucky, you
have inflicted a severe wound and may subtract 2
extra points from the creature’s STAMINA score. How-
ever, if you are Unlucky, the wound is a mere graze
and you must restore 1 point to the creature’s STAMINA
(so that, instead of scoring the normal 2 points of
damage, you now score only 1).

If the creature has just wounded you, you may Test
your Luck to try to minimize the wound. If you are

12

Lucky, you manage to avoid the full strength of the
blow; restore 1 point of sTAMINA (so that instead of
doing 2 points of damage, it does only 1). If you are
Unlucky, you take a more serious blow: subtract 1
extra point from your current sTAMINA total.

Remember: you must subtract 1 point from your own
LUCK score each time you Test your Luck. If your LUCK
score ever reaches zero, you will automatically be
Unlucky whenever you are forced to Test your Luck.
So be careful out there!

Testing your Skill

At times you will find yourself in a situation where
your physical strength, your reflexes and agility may
affect whether you are able to avoid a hazard or
perform some action (such as climbing a difficult and
treacherous surface). When this is the case, you may
be instructed to Test your Skill.

The procedure for this is as follows: roll two dice. If
the total rolled is less than or equal to your current
SKILL score, you have been successful. If the number
rolled is greater than your current SKILL score, you
have failed. The relevant paragraphs will tell you what
success and failure mean when you Test your Skill.
However, you do not have to subtract any points from
your SKILL score for Testing your Skill in this way. This
is a crucial difference from Testing your Luck!

Sometimes you may face a difficult task in which your
SKILL is tested to the full; for example, you may be

13
begin with. This will enable you to maintain sTAMINA
throughout the adventure. However, you cannot carry
more than 12 Provisions at any one time!

Luck

Your Luck score will also change during the adventure
as you Test your Luck. Additions to your Luck score
may be awarded when you have been especially fortu-
nate, and similarly you may be told to reduce your
LUCK when you make an important mistake; details of
such events are given in the appropriate paragraphs of
the book. Remember that, as with sk1LL and sTAMINA,
your LUCK may never exceed its Initial value unless
you are specifically told this.

Apart from Testing your Luck, you will also be given
some opportunities for ‘spending’ tuck. You will be
asked whether you wish to deduct 1 point from your

16

current LUCK score in order to improve your chances
of a successful outcome — for example, you can often
modify a dice roll that you are told to make by
spending a point of your LUCK (in this case, you must
decide whether to spend the tuck point before you roll
the dice). Of course, LUCK points are precious and you
cannot afford this luxury very often. Making the right
choice about whether to spend a Luck point in this
way can be important for success in this adventure.

Faith

Your FAITH may be shaken by certain perils during
your adventure, but it may also be increased when
you are victorious in some very dangerous battles or
when you find some special objects or relics of Good.
Your FAITH score can be increased above its Initial
value. You will find out exactly how FAITH works
when you meet certain creatures during your adven-
ture, and you will be instructed about this in the
relevant paragraphs.

Blood Points

During your adventure you will have a limited number
of opportunities to perform actions which will weaken
your ultimate enemy. Learning old lore about Count
Heydrich, destroying some of the items he owns, and
acquiring powerful relics of Good will help you to
overcome him when at last you confront him! Also,
because your enemy gains strength with time, you
lose Blood Points when you waste time or are delayed

17
during your adventure. Your Blood Points tally is 10
at the outset, and you must record changes to it in the
Blood Points box on your Adventure Sheet. You must
do all you can to raise the Blood Points score as high
as possible, since the lower it is, the more powerful
will your nemesis be when you finally meet. It is
possible for your Blood Points score to fall below zero
if you are greatly delayed; if this happens, you should
record negative numbers. But try to avoid this at all
costs!

Equipment

You start your adventure with some simple, basic
equipment that you will need for the adventure ahead,
but you may find extra items during your travels. You
are armed with a sword and are dressed in leather
armour; you also carry a shield. You have a backpack
(a simple rucksack or haversack) on your back to hold
your Provisions and any treasures or other items you

18 ;

may find. You also carry a lantern which you can use
to light your way, should you find yourself literally in
the dark.

You may also find treasure, in the form of Gold Pieces
or valuable objects along the way; you should make a
note of these in the Treasure box on your Adventure
Sheet. You may have opportunities for trading treasure
for equipment, help or information in this adventure,
so be honest about keeping an accurate record of how
much treasure you obtain!

Special Hazards: Curses, Plagues and Poisons

You may also find yourself the victim of some
wretched affliction or other during your adventure for
you are facing evil and dangerous enemies. If you are
poisoned or cursed, or if you pick up some terrible
affliction from the bite of an infected creature, you will
be in serious danger. You may even die swiftly if you
cannot find an antidote, some healing, or magical help;
on other occasions you may be condemned to a
lingering death, growing slowly weaker (but at least
you will have time to look for help) The relevant
paragraphs will instruct you as to the adverse effects
you will suffer if you are afflicted. You will do well to
protect yourself against such dangers by finding (or
perhaps purchasing) help and information in advance
about the hazards you may have to face. Lose no
opportunity of gaining antidotes to poisons and
plagues, and information about them, and magical
protections.

19
Hints on Play

Your journey will be perilous and you may well fail on
your first attempt. Make notes and draw a map as you
explore — this map will prove invaluable when you
make further forays in this adventure, and it will
enable you to progress more rapidly to unexplored
regions. Making a map is especially important in this
adventure. You will be exploring a very large area,
and sometimes you may wish to backtrack in order to
check areas behind you or to revisit one or two places
of particular value or note. It will be much easier to
follow instructions and make appropriate choices,
where to go and what to do, if you draw a rough
sketch map during this adventure.

Be wary about Testing your Luck, unless a paragraph
tells you that you must do this! When it comes to
fights, you should Test your Luck only to keep yourself
alive if an opponent's blow would otherwise kill you
(so far as reducing your sTAMINA loss from your
opponent’s blows is concerned). The other occasion
when you should not think twice about using Luck is
in the final combat against your dire enemy in this
adventure — if you've got enough Luck left to use.
Don’t Test your Luck in order to try to do extra
damage upon an enemy unless this is really necessary!
LUCK points are precious!

Keep an eye open for ways to trade your treasure for
equipment and help during your adventure. Gold
Pieces are of little use: you cannot eat them, use them
in combats or cast spells with them. But they will buy

20

you food, weapons, even magic — if you can find
someone to trade with!

You will soon realize that paragraphs make no sense if
read in numerical order. It is essential that you read
only the paragraphs you are instructed to go to.
Reading other paragraphs lessens the excitement and
surprise during play. The only true way to success in
this adventure involves minimizing risk; any player, no
matter how weak his or her attributes, should be able
to struggle through to glory in the end.

May the luck of the gods go with you on the adven-
ture ahead — for this one, you may well need it!

21
VENTURE SHEET ENCOUNTER BOXES

SKILL SKILL SKILL Skill= Skill= Skill=

Initial Initial Initial |

Skill=. Skill= Skill= Stamina= Stamina= Stamina=

FAITH: BLOOD POINTS: PROVISIONS: Skill= Skill= ) Skill=

Initial Initial

Faith= BPs=10 Stamina= Stamina= Stamina=

}

TREASURE: EQUIPMENT: Skill= Skill= Skill=
Stamina= Stamina= Stamina=
Skill= Skill= Skill=
Stamina= Stamina= Stamina=

BACKGROUND

There is little call for the services of a warrior at this
time of year in the town of Gummport, it seems. The
eastern coastline of the Old World has been all too
peaceful for some months. The people there grow fat
and lazy, and they’re not your type of folk at all.
Bored and restless, you sit in a tavern in a miserable
little village outside the town, wondering whether to
return to Allansia of to seek more interesting and
dangerous lands in the Old World. Then your eyes
turn, as everyone else’s do, to an old man who’s been
helped to a table beside a crackling log fire. He is tall,
thin and stooped, with a livid scar running down his
neck, and his hands shake a little as he puts a blackthorn
stick down beside the wooden chair into which he
lowers himself painfully. He doesn’t take off his heavy
brown cloak and even next to the fire he seems cold.
As his face glows in the reflected firelight, you see that
his eyes are opaque and milky: the old man is blind.
He seems to be entirely alone, for he was helped to his
seat by the landlord’s son, and now no one sits with
him. In the tavern, a couple of shifty-eyed, rat-faced
men — evil-looking sorts — are already gazing at him,
and you guess they see him as a soft target. He may
well end up in a back alley with a knife in his back if
they get their way. Scowling at them so that they back
away like the cowards they are, you walk over with
the last of your meal and sit down beside him.

24

He is glad of your company and is happy to talk to
you. After you have introduced yourself, he says his
name is Henrik van der Termlen, from Mauristatia — as
if his accent didn’t give that away. He is on his way to
visit a friend, a fellow scholar in one of the monasteries
which throng the shores of Lake Libra. ‘Tt will be good
to see old Sewarth again,’ he says, ‘although I wish the
matter concerning us was not so evil, and time not so
short.’

He falls quiet, and sips his ale.

You ask him why he is travelling alone in these rough
lands. ‘I was not alone until yesterday,’ he says quietly.
‘But then Otto, my old friend and servant, did not
wake from his bed. His body was cold and his face
frozen into a terrible scream.’ His hands fidget as if he
was running them over his old friend’s face again. ‘He
was murdered, poisoned. Clearly my enemy does not
want me to reach my destination.’

For a moment you consider the possibility that he
might be mad but he hasn’t far to go and you feel
sorry for him, so you offer to accompany him to the
safety of the monastery. His face breaks into a smile.
‘You are a good friend, I think,’ he says happily. ‘I will
be glad of your company. | am tired and need to sleep
now; however, I shall see you here in the moming.
Though you have not asked, I have a little gold with
me, and you will be rewarded for your kindness.’
Before you can protest, he gets up and shuffles towards
the bedrooms of the tavern, his stick tapping against
the wall. You finish your supper and turn in yourself.

25
In the morning, there is no sign of Henrik at breakfast,
so you go to his room. You knock twice on the door,
but there is no reply. Uneasily, you open the door
and, entering, you are appalled at what you see. The
old man has been killed. A heavy-bladed knife pro-
trudes from the crumpled body lying on the blood-
soaked bed. Horrified, you reel away and your foot
catches on a small wooden box sticking out from
under the bed; as you trip over, the lid falls open and
some papers and gold pieces spill on to the floor.

You pick up the papers and look at them: they are
notes addressed to Sewarth and, though you don’t
mean to pry, you can’t help glancing through them.
Much of what is written here makes little sense to
you, but it is clear that Henrick has been hunting an
evil fugitive from Mortvania whose name is Count
Reiner Heydrich: Henrik documents his terrible life and
his eventual slaying. The man was a monster: Henrik
tells of the murders of hundreds of peasants by impal-
ing, the draining of their blood and much worse. Then
your eyes take in the following words.

... though Heydrich was slain, he could not be destroyed
for ever. Somewhere, his life force is contained in a
magical artefact which will protect him, although I have
not yet learned what this is. I do know that destroying it
will be vital, otherwise the Vampire will be invulnerable.
He longs for revenge after he was vanquished in Mort-
vania. Now, he can become far stronger than ever he was
in that wretched land.

You are stunned. Henrick was a Vampire hunter, it

26

seems! The last of the notes begs Sewarth to research
the Soul Jewel and discover its nature. These must be
copies of letters sent by Henrik to the scholar-monk. If
the latter replied, Henrik doesn’t have the letters with
him.

What should you do now? Henrik is past human aid.
You are angry at the cowardly murderers who slew a
helpless blind man, but you do not know who they
are and you cannot find them and bring them to
justice. All you can do now is to take these papers to
Sewarth and hope that Henrik’s research will come to
fruition. A Vampire ~ the most feared of all the
undead, a leecher of life and blood, an appalling evil!
Yes, you will take Henrik’s letters to the monk. That,
at least, you can do.

You hesitate as you look at the gold on the floor. If
you leave it, in all likelihood the thieves of the tavern
will soon take it. You have a choice at the start of
your adventure. If you want to leave here at once and
head for Lake Libra, turn to paragraph 1. If you decide
to take the gold, turn to paragraph 51.

1-2

1
Leaving the village behind you, you make for Lake
Libra, following the riverside road. You get a lift on a
cart from a friendly farmer, and soon find yourself at
the lakeside, the papers tucked safely inside your shirt.
Then you realize that many monastic settlements
throng the lakeside, and you do not know which one
Sewarth lives in! So you knock at the front door of the
first monastery you come to and ask the young monk
who opens it if he knows where Sewarth can be found.
He shakes his head, but then he says that the monks of
the Hamaskian Monastery will know. There, the monks
of the god of learning will tell you where to find
F Baney op of me Sewarth ~ for a small donation. If you have 1 Gold
BE AALAND ay Farleigh Piece and are willing to pay them, they tell you where
oP he cam Sewarth is to be found. If you can’t — or won't — pay,
then you have to keep asking around and you are
delayed; lose 1 Blood Point. Turn to 351.

Te Canuni€é ww. b's Ne by ; ¢ 2
avast vs oF, ION a) u_| You hear a flapping, scraping sound behind you and,
* LO oe Sai looking around, you see a huge black bat grinning at
you! Its flight is cumbersome in these enclosed pas-
sages, and it has to draw its wings round itself, but it

- FAR Awacanp °« a BAYS is making its way towards you and can it can move

Be faster than you can. The thing has evilly glowing red

eyes, long sharp teeth and wickedly curved claws as
long as your fingers. You will have to fight it here.

HORNED VAMPIRE BAT sxkitt 8 STAMINA 10

If you win, you decide that it is high time you got out
of this place. You reckon that Sewarth must be dead —

3

he learned too much. On the way out, you spot the
gleam of gold at the bony feet of one of the skeletal
monks. Taking this would be dishonourable — the gold
must have been buried with the monk, perhaps as an
offering to one of the gods. If you want to take the 7
Gold Pieces that are here, you must lose 1 FAITH
point. Make your decision, then head on upwards.
Turn to 125.

Healers who can treat afflictions such as yours are rare
in these lands. Test your Luck. If you are Lucky, you
meet a traveller who has herbs and unguents which
can cure you of one affliction; you will have to pay
him 10 Gold Pieces for this. If you are Unlucky, you
do not find a healer. Either way, you will lose another
2 Blood Points because of the delay. If you cannot
pay, or if you are Unlucky, you can Test your Luck
once or twice more in the same way. If you are still
not healed (of both your afflictions, if you have both),
you transform into one of the Count’s servants, and

4-5

your adventure ends here. If you are healed, or if you
decide to give up and make for Mortus Mansion, turn
to 198.

4

Shevala leads you to what looks like a large pothole
close to two large rocks; you light your lantern and
make your way downwards. Looking back, you see
Carollar striding off angrily towards a cave entrance in
the side of Crab Peak, but you have no time to worry
about her now. You enter a maze of passageways,
stopping from time to time to listen for any sound of
the monster you seek. You come across two skeletons
in a side cave, and you can make out the gleam of
metal among the bones. If you want to investigate
this, turn to 63. If you prefer to press on, turn to 177.

You head east until you come to a secluded house
hidden behind very thick, high hedges. A pair of
rusted iron gates, half open, give access to a pathway,
and just inside the gates are some run-down stables.
You go through the gates. If you want to explore the
stables, turn to 376. If you prefer to make straight for
the house, turn to 98.
13-14

43

Following the trail, you stumble across the bloody
corpse of a young monk. You feel sick and begin to
wonder as to the wisdom of continuing until you hear
another voice screaming in the distance. You rush to
see if you can save this person’s life. You are too late,
for when you reach his cell the monk has already been
slain by the ghastly, corrupted thing which stands,
slavering and slobbering, in front of you, blood all
over its arms and body. It is vaguely human, but its
flesh is a sickly grey colour and its bloodshot eyes
bulge out of their sockets. Tufts of wire-like black hair
stick out of its blotchy scalp and exposed flesh. The
monster leaps at you, hoping to add another victim
for its midnight feasting!

GHOUL-MONK SKILL 8 STAMINA Q

As soon as the Ghoul-Monk wounds you three times,
turn to 84. If it hits you even once, but you still
manage to defeat it, turn to 116. If you win without
being wounded at all, turn to 172.

14
As you enter the cavern, you are blinded by brilliant

sheets of flame searing through the cavern. The spark-
creature ignited the gas you could smell! You are
almost roasted alive. You must lose 8 staMINA points,
and now the creature is advancing towards you. If you
are still alive, you have to fight it, and you must
subtract 1 from your Attack Strength because of the
state of shock you are in and the blinding effects of
the flash of fire. Turn to 204.
9-10

elsewhere in the monastery, turn to 265. If you have
learned of some other part of the monastery and you
want to know how to get there, convert that location
into a number using the code A = 1, B = 2,C = 3

. Z = 26. Add the numbers corresponding to the
letters in the location then turn to the paragraph with
that number. If you do not turn to a paragraph which
begins, ‘Something I found puzzles me’, you have
made the wrong choice; you should turn back to this
paragraph and makes a fresh choice about where to go
next.

Before your astonished eyes, the Count’s body turns
into a cloud of mist which flies towards the darkness
of the right-hand archway in the distance. You chase
the fleeing Vampire for all you are worth. Test your
Spot Skill. If you are successful, turn to 106. If you fail,
turn to 165.

10

No one here has ever heard of Crab Peak. Your only
hope is to find someone passing through the hamlet who
has heard of the place. Roll one dice. If you roll a 1, you
find a traveller who tells you where Crab Peak is; turn to
310. If you roll any other number, you waste one day of
precious time; lose 2 Blood Points. If you have Bloodbane,
did you roll a 6 on that dice? If you did, you must subtract
1 from both your Current and Initial stAMINA scores.
You can continue waiting and asking for as long as you
like, but if you get bored by failure and decide to make
for Count Heydrich’s mansion house instead, turn to 89.

11-12

11

A magical glow swirls round the door with the shield
on it, but you are not apprehensive. The usual sense of
evil filling the crypts is absent here. You push the
door open and discover a long corridor and five doors,
each bearing a shield design. Materializing before you
is the ghost of a knightly figure, tall and stern, who
looks you over appraisingly.

‘No evil enters here, the ghost announces. ‘Any
undead creature would be destroyed instantly by the
magic guarding the tombs of the Knights of the
Thorn.’ He seems to peer right into you — even
through you — for a moment. ‘You come to destroy
the evil here,’ the shade declares approvingly. ‘And
not before time!’ What looks almost like a smile
flickers on his face. ‘I will allow you to pass into
one, and only one, of the tomb rooms here, to take
whatever may be of help to you.’

You must choose which tomb to enter. Whose tomb
room will you enter?

The first Knight's?
The second Knight's?
The third Knight's?
The fourth Knight's?
The fifth Knight's?

Turn to 113
Turn to 171
Turn to 224
Turn to 292
Turn to 314

12

You are turned into a smoking pile of ash by the
magical barrier which stands in your way. Your adven-
ture ends here.

6-7

6

‘Spare me!’ the crone cries, sinking to her knees and
clasping her hands together. Tl give you my treasure,
oh yes! It’s all in there,’ she snivels, pointing to the
archway. ‘I can tell you the magical words to speak in
order to pass through it safely. Yes! Otherwise you
will be killed by its terrible power! I will give you all
the gold I have!’ If you are determined to kill her off,
you can do so easily; turn to 64. If you decide to
parley with her, turn to 124. If you decide not to kill
her but to tie her up’ and gag her so that she can’t be a
menace to you, you can find rope here to do so (turn
to 168).

You are standing at the top of the southern passage,
looking southwards. There are doors to your left and

8

right, and one directly ahead of you at the end of the
passage. You should explore an area where you have
not been before. Will you:

Open the right-hand door? Turn to 85
Open the left-hand door? Turn to 29
Open the door in front of you? Turn to 55
Backtrack to the west passage? Turn to 175

8

You learn from Marcus that it was Endrell who told
him about the other monks’ departures; they them-
selves didn’t tell him where they were going. You also
tell Marcus of the history of Mortvania — which you
know to be the homeland of the Vampire whom
Sewarth and Henrik were corresponding about, and
which you found in Endrell’s room. Marcus is begin-
ning to look very fidgety and worried himself. He
blurts out that Endrell is often away from his bedroom |
at night, and that he, Marcus, has seen strange, dark
shapes flitting about the monastery during the night.
He is clearly worried senseless. “You might try explor-
ing the library,’ he says. ‘Or Sewarth’s room, of course.
That is locked. The library is just north of this room;
Sewarth’s rooms are directly south of here.’ You cannot
persuade him to accompany you.

It is time to explore elsewhere. If you want to make
for Sewarth’s rooms, turn to 135. If you want to head
for the library, turn to 375. If you want to leave this
east wing of the building and head westwards, turn to
197. If you want to leave this east wing and search

20-22

rushes straight past you, screaming something about a
scarred monster-man following him. If you want to
ignore this mayhem and find somewhere to stay, turn
to 285. If you would rather find a place where you can
crouch down, hide and wait to see what happens, turn

to 94.

20
The Ghouls here are tough opponents by virtue of
sheer numbers. Before wielding your sword, you could
try weakening them with other attacks. Blackfire will
destroy half of them (subtract 2 from their skiLt and 5
from their sTAMINA) or acid will destroy one of the
Ghouls (subtract 2 from their sTAMINA). You can use
only one special attack before the Ghouls come to life
and you have to fight with your sword.

GHOUL PACK SKILL 9

If you are struck three times by the Ghoul pack, turn
at once to 84. If you win, you make for the door
ahead; turn to 350.

STAMINA 13

21
Acid is utterly useless against the Megaghoul — it, after
all, uses acid as a weapon itself! Its iron claws rip
along your side just after you have hurled the acid at
it, and you must lose 2 sTAMINA points. You are
forced to fight with your sword; turn to 270.

22
You push open the small door and find yourself in a
little room in which a saddler is at work. He is

ee: ee

23

lovingly polishing a beautiful, wine-coloured leather
saddle. The man has his back to you; he is muscular
and young, with long brown hair. The windowless
room is lit by a strange, ornate wall-lantern which
gives out a very disconcerting red radiance. As you
enter, the man turns around. His eyes are blank, his
face expressionless. ‘Tell the Count his work will be
done,’ he says in a monotone. He seems to think you
must have come from the mansion house. What will
you do now? Will you take the lantern away (turn to
286), try to talk to the man (turn to 79) or decide that
you are wasting valuable time in the coach-house and
make for the main mansion house (turn to 46)?

23

To your dismay, the west door in this room is now
opening and pair of Zombies are shambling in from a
nearby guard-room. You must fight the Zombies and
Sandar two at a time (Sandar and one Zombie first of
all). It is impossible now to go on making grabs for
Sandar’s amulet in this frantic mélée, so you must now

fight with your sword.

15-17

ste
You have just left a hapless and innocent human being
to his death. Lose 1 FAITH point. You return to the
trail; turn to 148.

16

You shake the sleeping woman and splash some water
on her face. She wakes up slowly and you reassure her
that you are not one of the castle’s evil occupants. She
says that she is a warrior herself, Vantiane from Gal-
lantaria, on her way to the port of Arkleton in search
of employment. She remembers walking into a mist
along the road, then the swooping of wings — and
nothing beyond that. She is weakened, but you give
her some food (subtract 1 from your Provisions) and
she rummages around in the room, coming up with
her leather armour, shield and sword, which were
stowed away under the sofa. Vantiane will help you in
the next three combats you get into. While she is with
you, you can add 2 to your Attack Strength because
she fights at your side. After three combats have taken
place (or when you leave the mansion house, if this is
sooner), she will bid you farewell and make for Arkle-
ton. You return to the main passage outside this room;
turn to 399.

17
Your horse is still willing, but he is slower than last
night and he cannot keep up with the fleeing Count.
You ride on slowly until dawn, then stop to take
breakfast. You must now eat a meal. If you have a
Codex with you, you know how many pages it has;

18-19

turn to the paragraph with that number. If you do not
have this book, turn to 279.

18

When you step into the magical barrier, you feel as if
you have been plunged into boiling oil and are being
fried alive. Screaming with pain, you collapse; lose 10
STAMINA points! If you are still alive, you reawaken
after some hours of unconsciousness (lose 1 Blood
Point). Worse still, some scavenging rats have made
off with half of your food (divide your Provisions total
by two, rounding fractions up). Just be thankful they
didn’t nibble at you! Turn to 76.

19

You have more long days ahead of you; during your
journey, you must eat 6 meals to supplement what
you can beg. However, you may buy food to replace
used provisions (1 Gold Piece buys enough for 2
meals). If you have a longbow, you can take some pot-
shots at rabbits for your supper. Test your Skill. If you
are successful, you hunt well enough to add 3 to your
Provisions. If you fail, you may add only 1 to your
Provisions. If you have no gold and you need food
badly, you can work at log-chopping and _ similar
demeaning tasks to earn money. One day's work earns
1 gold piece, but you must lose 1 Blood Point for each
day you spend working.

Eventually you round the western edge of the northern
Great Wall and, as night falls, find yourself in the
village of Sharnek. Behind you, a rider races up and
24-25

First ZOMBIE SKILL STAMINA
Second ZOMBIE 7 7
7 7

If you win, you decide to explore the house. Turn to
114.

24

You have made a wise choice in your query (gain 1
Luck point). Doktor Verruckte, for so he introduces
himself, is eager to bore you rigid with incomprehen-
sible details concerning his strange and unappetizing
experiments in capturing the essence of life, and the
undead, and using them for all manner of obscure
purposes. ‘Now, you know, bringing the dead back to
life, well, that’s difficult,’ he drones on. ‘But I, the great
Doktor Verruckte, am engaged in the great work of
bringing the undead back to life — or back to unlife, |
suppose you might say.’ He giggles at his feeble joke.
From what he says, you learn that he is trying to
bring the Count’s sister back to life, to join her brother
in his infernal doings! You want him to say more, but
he now grows quiet and yawns prodigiously. ‘Time
for my nap,’ he says, pushing you towards the door.
You can go quietly (turn to 7) or attack him (turn to
278).

25
Having destroyed the horror, you tend to the man,
first removing his gag in order to hear what he has to
say for himself. Mortus Mansion contains too many
enemies for you to untie him immediately. He tells

—

25

you that this name is Malkan, that he is apprentice to
a healer of Arkleton, and that foolishly he wandered
too close to the mansion, looking for rare curative
herbs and plants. He came with his brother, Simeon,
who — like himself — was overwhelmed by a pack of
Ghouls, which rushed out of the mansion grounds and
attacked them. Malkan fears that Simeon has been
eaten by the flesh-eating Ghouls, and his grief-stricken
expression persuades you that this is not some tall tale
and you decide to untie him. As he rises unsteadily to
his feet, you see that he is thin and is certainly no
fighting man. You give him instructions for getting
out of the mansion, and tell him to flee for safety. You
promise that, if you find his brother, you will do your
best to free him. He is deeply grateful to you. If you
have any afflictions (Lung Rot or Latent Vampirism,
say), he can cure one of them for you, but only one:
he is too weak, and anyway is just a novice healer, to
do any more. Gain 1 FAITH point for freeing the
young healer. Now you can climb the stairs into the
darkness (turn to 50), retreat and explore elsewhere in
the east wing (turn to 399), or make for the west wing
(turn to 144).

26-28

26

You don’t bother to knock; you just smash the door
down. The room itself is almost completely dark, but
just enough light comes in from the corridor for you
to see what is in here. There is a coffin on the bed, and
a figure lies recumbent inside it. But there is also a
watchful, powerfully built man with studded leather
armour and a very sharp sword standing guard over
his master, and he moves at once to attack you. You
have to fight for your life now!

IGOR SKILL 9 STAMINA 14

If Igor has an Attack Strength of 20 or better when he
wins an Attack Round, you must deduct 3 points from
your STAMINA for his attack — he is very powerful. If
you win, turn to 24.4.%
& 27

You light the red lamp and its baleful light illuminates
the passageway. The shrouded forms moan, tossing
and turning inside their cocoons, then settle back in
their wretched slumber. You make for the door ahead
of you. Turn to 350:

28
As you approach the door, there is a sudden flash of
light in front of you, as if a warning was being given.
You suspect that the door may have some form of
magical trap set upon it. You have three choices here.
If you have some, you may pour Oil of Disenchant-
ment on the door to dispel the trap. If this is your
choice, you know the number etched on the vial of oil;

29-30

add 102 to that number, then turn to the paragraph
with this higher number. Alternatively, you can just
open the door and hope for the best; if you want to
do this, turn to 102. Of course you can just forget
about this door altogether, set off along the passage
and open the left-hand door (turn to 393) or the right-
hand door at the end (turn to 11).

29 &
The Count's writing room edad chind the door. You
rummage swiftly through the ‘Peers on the writing
desk, but they are blank. These are no clues to be
found here, but on the west walBare three portraits. In
the centre is one of the Count himself; his dark,
brooding eyes seem almost to be*surveying the room.
You don’t want to look at this téo closely. The other
two portraits show a man and a woman. If you have a
History of Mortvania, you know ‘the volume number.
Multiply that number by 45, then turn to the paragraph
with the same number. Otherwise, search elsewhere;
turn to 7.

30
The wolves snarl and growl, but they dare not attack
you! You inch past the baying pack to the back door

31-35

of the mansion house and push hard at it to escape them.
Turn to 207.

31
As you leap the fissure, you must Test your Skill. If
you are successful, turn to 153. If you fail, turn to gg.

32

Old Grundy is bad-mannered, bad-tempered and
grumpy. It also seems that you will have to buy him a
ridiculous amount of ale and several old mutton pies
for his supper before he’s ready to talk. This generosity
will cost you 2 Gold Pieces. If you're ready to pay and
listen to the old bore;drone on, turn to 81. Otherwise,
you set off for the mines; turn to 134.

33
ith us until Sewarth returns,’

you are shown to a room with
some very rough blankets. You
thin soup and a jug of water for
e down to sleep. Turn to 74.

‘You may stay h
Endrell announces,
only a pallet bed
are given hard bre
supper, then you

34
If you have been @@Crab Peak, turn to 58. If you have

not been there, tus to 117.

35
The door is locked, so you have to force it open. Test

vour Skill. If you fail, you smash it down clumsily and
land heavily; lose 2 STAMINA points. If you are success-
ful, you come to no harm. Inside the room is a

30-37

disturbing sight: a corpse lies, strapped down, on what
could be an embalming table. Certainly, the room
smells strongly of preservatives and there is a tray of
flasks and urns containing various coloured and mal-
odorous liquids. Oddly, though the body does not
move, foggy breath appears to be drifting up from its
blue-lipped mouth. If you want to explore this more
closely, turn to 54. Alternatively, you can leave this
alone and go somewhere you haven't been before; will
you:

Open the door at the end oF the
|

corridor? Se Turn to 208
Explore the eastern side of the

house?
Leave and set out on your

Turn to 193
Turn to 300

The sword turns on you and sis you outright! It
would never allow a latent Vampirésto wield its magic,
and it strikes you down with all t#® magical power it
contains. Your adventure ends here.

37
You hammer on the door for all you are worth. When

Grundar, Harquar’s shambling bodyguard, appears, you

38

scream at him that something has just got in through
the upstairs window and is attacking his master.
Grundar, unfortunately, is slow on the uptake; he cups
a hand to his ears and listens, but hears nothing. He
looks at you very disbelievingly. You finally manage
to drag him out into the street and show him the
dissolved window. He furrows his brow and lumbers
upstairs with you, but by now it’s too late: Hanquar’s
body lies on his bed, covered in a sheet of slime that is
dripping on to the floor. Grundar looks even more
dumbfounded than usu

‘Go and get the Wa
to taking orders and
on night patrol in F
cious time to searc
~ though it may b
caught in the act. I
to 141. If you w
for the Watch to
It’s hard to belie
against you. The
so you will have
wards (turn to 1

304).

you yell at him. He’s used
bers off to find a guardsman
h. This give you some pre-
place before he comes back
arrassing if you get yourself
decide to take the risk, turn
rather not, you wait meekly
and give them your story.
ut they have no evidence
nt you out of town, though,
eave, going either north-east-
r to some other area (turn to

38

The Count is dof in the crypts, of course,’ the old
man snarls. ‘Everyone knows that.’ He looks at you in
a highly suspicious manner and before you can react,
he flings a vial of acid at you. Deduct 3 points from
your STAMINA. You will have to fight him now; turn
[0 278.

39-40

Bo
A shape is forming in the mist! A bat-like creature,

semi-transparent and seemingly composed of gas rather
than a solid object, glides soundlessly down towards
you. The ‘eyes’ of the thing glow a baleful green, and
it whips a long, stingered tail out at you. You must
subtract 1 from your Attack Strength when fighting
this aerial spectre. If you do not have a Magic Sword,
when you strike the mongter it will lose only 1 STAMINA
point, as it is resistant n-magical weapons.

BAT-SPECTRE

SKILL 7 STAMINA 7

our way safely through the
trail beyond. Turn to 148.

If you win, you m
mist to the clear air
40

he witches? If you have not,
u can find them? If you do,
the place where they can be
e to a number using the code
... Z = 26. Add the numbers
etters of the place together to
o the paragraph with the same
If you do not know where to
cannot succeed in this adventure,

Have you been to
do you know wh
you know the na
found. Change tha
A=~1B=2,C
corresponding to
get a total, then
number as that t
find the Vampire,
which ends here.

If you have beerm@fo see the witches, do you have a
red crystal heart? If you do not have it, then again you
have failed; your adventure ends here. If you do have
it, you still need to know the name of Reiner Hey-
drich’s final hiding-place. If you do know it, change

41-42

the name to a number using the code A = 1, B = 2,
etc. Add the numbers corresponding to the letters of
the place together and add five to get a total. Turn to
the paragraph with the same number as the total. If
you do not know where to find the Vampire, you
cannot succeed in your goal, and your adventure ends
here.

You take the risk and brea
you find no clues. A prolo
ing; lose 1 Blood Point.«]
about to give up and, leavey.
sheet of paper sticking 0)
notes on the paper were clea ‘i :
You can make out the wi pragical gem-hidden
secret. Now indestructible. Fixe ver have believed

. has infiltrated here: Mist ho one. Copy
notes and keep: BELOW’ it ts on" you that you
have found no other notes; faty or records of
research; they must have b§d mqved. But, some-
where below the monastery, - Eclues are hidden.
Where might that be, you Br. You can now
explore the east wing further* & to 265) or else
make for the west wing (turn to

42 |
As you stoop to examine the first-jmb, for an instant
the hands of the corpse seem to reach out, as if
begging for help. But then the body is still again, and
you cannot be sure whether your senses fooled you.
For an instant a whisper seems to echo round the

43-44

chamber: the single word ‘curse’. You gaze at the
stone, and you know it to be the source of both the
evil and the curse — whatever that may be. You should
now examine the stone (turn to 180). If you really do
not want to do that, you can return to the surface
(tum to 145) or backtrack and take the left-hand
turning behind you (turn to 363), but if you do either
you must lose 1 FAITH point!

Pe”

The taller and uglier of the crones, Shevala, takes you
to one side, away from the hate-filled gaze of the
other crone, and whispers to you. ‘My sister has been
turned to stone,’ she ‘snarls. ‘She,’ pointing to Carollar,
‘led her to the Basilisk’s lair! It’s her fault. I cannot
return Xalvanar to life. That can only be done by
slaying the Basilisk. Do that for me and bring me its
head. Then I can craft an enchantment to bring my
sister back. Do this for me, and then together we will
slay Carollar. You can have the treasure she has in her
cave.’ If you are ready to agree to Shevala’s plan, turn
to 4. If you are not, you can talk to Carollar (turn to
195) or try some other strategy (turn to 72).

44
As you despatch Si his sister, the Vampire in the coffin

utters a terrible scream of fury and sits bolt upright.
Its eyes are suffused with blood, and clots of blood
cake its mouth. It has been regaining its strength in its
coffin! It springs forward and attacks you with all the
strength left to it. It will use a do-or-die strategy now,
trying to reach your throat with its fangs and nails.
45

This means that its Attack Strength is reduced (this is
already taken into account in its skILL score below)
but, if it strikes you, you must lose 3 sTAMINA points
and then you have to roll one dice. If you roll a 6, the
Vampire strikes an immense blow and you must lose 6
STAMINA points — and, what is worse, you must roll
two more dice at once. If the total rolled is greater
than your Current sTAMINA score, you will die immedi-
ately from massive shock! Furthermore, how many
actions did you perform before entering the archway
that lead to this room? Divide the number of actions
by two, then round any fractions down, to get a new
total. Add that total to the Count’s sTAMINA score as
shown below.

REINER HEYDRICH SKILL 11 STAMINA 10

If you win, turn to 400.

45
As the gem strikes the stone, it seems to draw power

from the evil of the monolith: the heartbeat within it
grows swifter! You have made a terrible mistake; lose
5 Blood Points. What’s more, as you strike the gem
against the stone a wave of intense pain shoots though
your arm and you feel as if you have just rammed
your hand right into a stone wall. Deduct 3 points
from your STAMINA, and now you must Test your Luck. If
you are Lucky, you suffer no further ill-effects. If you
are Unlucky, you must also lose 1 skiLL point because
of the damage to your hand and arm. What will you
do now? If you have a magic sword, you could strike
the stone with this (turn to 342). If you have some Oil

40-47

of Disenchantment, you know the number on the top
of the vial. If you want to use it, turn to the paragraph
with that number. Otherwise, you can only backtrack
to the left-hand passage (turn to 363) or make for the
surface (turn to 145).

46

Uncertainly, you approach the front door of the man-
sion. It is a well-constructed building with thick stone
walls and slit windows with iron bars across to prevent
entry. The east and west wings of the house stand on
either side of you, barely visible through the mist. You
are pondering whether to knock on the door or smash
it down when it opens of its own accord! Beyond it is
a single, long, narrow hallway, with doors at the far
end (to the north) and on either side. There is no sign
of anything, living or undead, but the hallway is
carpeted in thick, deep-red pile, and small omaments
and busts stand in wall-alcoves. Will you:

Open the eastern door? Turn to 349
Open the western door? Turn to 144
Open the northern door? Turn to 253

: 47
It takes some time to quieten the monk down — lose 1
Blood Point — but eventually he responds and tells
you what he knows. A great Ghoul stormed through
the cells of the junior monks, Marcus has been mur-
dered and Endrell is missing. Of the other Elders there
is still no sign. A grim, hardened warrior confirms the
monk’s belief that the Ghoul from the crypts of the

48-49

monastery — his skill at following a trail shows that it
must have come from there. The monk also saw a
large, bat-like shape swoop down towards the monas-
tery before the Ghoul attacked, and some people
mutter something about the wolves baying in the area,
which is most unusual, for there is precious little forest
cover near by. This sounds worse by the minute, and
you really must try to pursue the coach now. If you
have at least 8 Gold Pieces, turn to 276. If you do not
have this much, or if you won't pay, turn to 203.

48

You sense the presence of undead guards behind the
secret door. You pick a stone up off the floor and
throw it gently a short distance ahead; then you stand
in the corner and wait. The door opens and a ghoulish
form appears; you strike at it from behind and manage
a lucky blow to its spine! It loses 4 sTAMINA points
(which have been subtracted from its total below).
Gain 1 Luck point! As the pair of Ghouls emerge, you
can fight them one at a time in this corner.

SKILL STAMINA
First GHOUL 8 3
Second GHOUL 8 7

If you are struck four times by the Ghouls, turn at
once to 84. If you win, turn to 215.

49
As you approach the mansion, the skies grow dark
and cloudy. A supernatural mist hangs round the
forbidding stone walls that are looming into view.

50-51

Drawing your sword, you advance towards the great
iron gates of the dismal edifice. The gates are barred,
and above them stone gargoyles leer down at you.
The sound of fluttering wings makes you look up, and
you see bats flying from the gateposts to the house
itself. Will you:

Try to force the iron gates open?

Try to climb the walls?

Walk round the walls and look for
another entrance?

Turn to 147
Turn to 185

Turn to 213

50
You light your lantern and ascend the steps. The room
at the top is a sealed black mausoleum, shrouded in
black curtains and drapes; a single coffin lies, sealed, in
the middle of the room. If you want to smash the
coffin, turn to 60. If you want to retreat and explore
elsewhere in the east wing, turn to 399. If you want to
head for the west wing, turn to 144.

51
You pick 6 Gold Pieces up off the floor and bundle the
papers into your pocket, then you head downstairs to
leave the tavern. Test your Luck. If you are Lucky, turn
to 1. If you are Unlucky, turn to 105.

vi

—S

= 2

hh

yf

Lh

“ee

_

SSS
&

52

52

At the bar you ask politely where Harquar may be
found, and the landlord replies with obvious distaste,
‘Who's asking after him, then?’ You give your name
and add that you have come from Lake Libra, where
there has been some trouble. The landlord clearly
doesn’t like the sound of that much, but he despatches
his lackey of a barman into the press of overdressed
and noisy merchants and scribes who patronize this
place. After a short time, you are directed to go to a
far corner where a fat man swathed in rich, pastel-
coloured silks sits slurping a bright blue drink. Harquar
stretches out a pudgy paw towards you and orders
you to sit down in a high-pitched squeak. You don’t
like the look of him at all. He blathers about nothing
in particular for ages and is really a time-waster.
Finally, exasperated, you announce that most of the
monks of the Halls of the Stars have been destroyed
by a Vampire and that either he can help you find out
why and give you some help, or else you are leaving.
At once he looks serious and says, ‘Come and see me
tomorrow morning. I have a house with a blue roof,
next to Orchead Square.’

If you are prepared to wait, and waste a whole night,
lose 1 Blood Point. You can stay in an inn (which
costs 1 Gold Piece) or sleep rough (you must eat a
meal). If you have Bloodbane, the delay causes you to
lose 1 point from both your Initial and Current
STAMINA. Turn to 369. If you won't wait, it’s too late
to buy any equipment now. You can either leave,
going north-eastwards (turn to 198), or make for

ne

58-59

mostly simple farming folk — and you can find barns
to sleep in at night and the occasional bowl of soup
and crust of bread. However, during this lengthy time
of travel you must eat four meals to supplement what
you manage to beg (subtract 4 from your Provisions),
otherwise you will have to work for your supper now
and again (subtract 2 Blood Points). If you have
Bloodbane, you must subtract 2 from both your Initial
and Current sTAMINA scores. Finally, you find yourself
trudging towards the farming hamlet of Stunkaster.
The night is growing foggy and the air is very damp.
If you have Lung Rot, you must lose 2 points from
your STAMINA. You hear a woman’s voice crying out
piteously; she is moaning, ‘Murder! Murder!’ If you
want to find out what’s going on, turn to 328. If you
want to go straight on into Stunkaster, you soon
arrive at the village inn; turn to 226.

58
‘But you cannot hope to destroy him,’ Siegfried adds
miserably. “You have found the witches, but you did
not find Reiner’s soul gem. You will be too late.’ You
have failed and your adventure ends here.

59°
The stablemen grab heavy pitchforks to defend them-
selves against your attack. You must fight them both
together here.

SKILL STAMINA
First STABLEMAN 7 7
Second STABLEMAN 7 6

60-61

If you win, attacking these men was an evil thing to
do. After all, they were only ordinary working men
and hired hands; lose 1 FAITH point. You take 2 Gold
Pieces from one of them, then you saddle your horse
for the chase. Turn to 17.

60

You slash at the black wood of the coffin with your
sword, but this is a trap set for the unwary! The Count
sleeps in coffins that have been left open, and this
sealed one is not one of his resting places. As you
strike down, whirring metal blades fly up from the
brass handles on either side of the coffin and from the
plaque set into its top. Test your Skill. If you are
successful, you suffer no more than flesh wounds — but
several of them; lose 4 STAMINA points. If you fail,
your sword arm suffers a deep wound in addition to
numerous flesh wounds; lose 5 sTAMINA points and 1
point from your skILL. Angry at your misfortune, you
retire and find somewhere else to explore; do you
want to search in the east wing (turn to 399) or the
west wing (turn to 144)?

61
You feel you must do some exploring now; you are
losing time. So, will you:

Look for Marcus, if you haven't

spoken to him yet? Tum to 356
Go to Endrell’s room, if you haven't
done so already? Turn to 132

Turn to 232

Explore the monastery further?

53

another place away from Farleigh (turn to 304); or you
could follow Harquar to his house (turn to 246).

53
This is the magic sword ‘Imperator’, and it is a mighty
weapon indeed. It adds 1 to your Attack Strength in
all combats, but it adds 2 to your Attack Strength
against all undead. It also has three special powers
which you should use with great care. First, it can —
once and once only — deliver an especially powerful
strike against any Vampire or Vampyre. You must
decide when to use this power before you roll dice for
Attack Strengths. If you have the higher Attack
Strength, Imperator will inflict 8 points of damage
upon your enemy. If you have the lower Attack
Strength, this special attack is dissipated and lost, and
you cannot attempt it again. Secondly, Imperator will
automatically dispel and negate any one (and only
one!) spell cast against you. You can choose which
spell attack this will be, and you can then ignore
instructions about lost sTAMINA, SKILL, etc., caused by
the spell attack. Thirdly, the sword contains a reservoir
of healing and restoring magic. If you have any afflic-
tions (Lung Rot, say), the sword cures them all. If you
have lost any sKILL points through attacks from the
undead or their like, Imperator will restore your sKILL
to its Initial level. Gain 2 Luck points for this wonder-
ful find! Then the knight’s ghost ushers you out of
the tomb, and you make for the door halfway along
the passage beyond the tombs, and open it. Turn to

393.

54757

54
You don’t want to get too close to the body, but you

poke about at the tray and find a pot of thick, gluey
resin and a vial of strong acid. You may take these if
you like. Now you must Test your Luck. If you are
Lucky, turn to 137. If you are Unlucky, turn to 179.

55
A sign on this door reads, ‘Laboratory. DO NOT

ENTER.’ If you don’t want to disturb the occupant, turn
to 7 to explore elsewhere. Otherwise, you can either
knock on the door and wait for a response (turn to 126)
or simply force the door open and go in (turn to 313).

56
‘Something I found puzzles me,’ you say to Marcus.
You admit that you have entered Sewarth’s room, and
explain what you found. ‘BELOW -— he wrote that in
capitals. What was he referring to?’

Marcus looks pale and very fearful. ‘He must mean the
crypts,’ he mutters, ‘where the dead monks are interred.
He must have hidden something there.’ Marcus tells
you that the entry to the crypts can be found through
the kitchens, next to the dining hall, in the west wing
of the monastery. If you want to make for the west
wing now, turn to 1gy. If you prefer to explore
elsewhere in the east wing, turn to 265.

57
An endless plain stretches ahead of you in central

Analand. The people hereabouts are friendly enough —

62-63

62

To climb the railings, you must Test your Skill. If you
do not have any rope, you must add 2 to the numbers
rolled on the dice. If you are successful, you clamber
over the railings and enter the courtyard; turn to 136.
If you fail, you fall off half-way up; lose 1 sTAMINA
point. You can continue Testing your Skill until you
succeed, or you can abandon the attempt and make for
the front door instead (turn to 46).

Among the bodies, you find 4 Gold Pieces, and a flask
of oil. The rusted chainmail armour the bodies once
wore is useless now, as are the brittle and rust-flecked
metal helmets of the long-dead knights. But you also
find a curious key, which looks as if it had been made
out of bone and then sprayed with molten silver. Take
the Skeleton Key, and make a note of the fact that it
has 13 notches cut along its length. Then you hear
something heavy moving immediately behind you

64-65

and, before you can stop yourself, you turn around and
find yourself looking a huge Basilisk right in the eye!
Test your Luck. If you are Unlucky, you will be turned
to stone ‘and your adventure ends here. If you are
Lucky, turn to 177.

64

You have despatched one of Count Heydrich’s vile
and evil minions. Gain 1 FAITH point! You find a pair
of keys on her body which, you guess, will open the
locked door you found in one of the passages here.
Exploring the rest of the witch’s den turns up nothing
of value. If you want to go and open that locked door
now, turn to 239. If you want to hazard going through
the archway, despite the magical barrier set upon it,
turn to 264. Otherwise, you return to the main passage.
You can now head for the surface (turn to 145) or go
to the cavern at the very end of the passage below
ground if you haven't been there before (turn to 206).

65

When you open the door quietly, a vivid shaft of
blue-white light streams out of the small, hot chamber.
A figure is seated with its back to you, and the
cloaked and robed figure holds a long glass tube in its
metal gauntlets. As you gaze at it, the figure places
one end of the tube in an intense blue flame coming
from a sizeable bronze lamp. On the table at which the
figure is working are numerous intricate glass vessels
and pipes and a small number of sealed vials of liquids
and oils. If you want to enter here, turn to 158. If
you'd rather not do so, turn to 399.

66-67

66
A wolf pack comes racing into the clearing and circles
round you, before their pack leader rushes in for the
kill! Fight the wolf pack as if it were one opponent.

WOLF-PACK SKILL 8 STAMINA 10

If you win, you can perform one action, such as eating
a meal or drinking some liqueur, before a final wolf is
upon you! This one is clearly bigger than the others.
Its paws also have an almost hand-like appearance, and
its face is not quite the right shape for a wolf. The
green glittering eyes are full of malice, however, and
the teeth protruding from its slavering muzzle are
sharp and keen.

WEREWOLF SKILL 8 STAMINA 9

Check your current STAMINA score both at the begin-
ning and at the end of the fight with the Werewolf. If,
at the end of the fight, it is half or less of what it was
at the start of the fight, turn to 183. Otherwise, turn
tO 242.

67
The ‘Rat and Bat’ is not an agreeable place but the
food is plentiful, even if doesn’t taste very good. The
clientele aren’t pleasant company, either: most of them
seem to be as thick as they are smelly. You fill your
stomach and retire to your room to get some badly
needed sleep. This is going to delay you; lose 1 Blood
Point. You begin to doze off. Test your Spot Skill.
If you are successful, turn to 159. If you fail, turn to

174.

68-71

68
Your arrow passes harmlessly between two of the
Skeleton’s bones! Immediately the guards come alive
and attack you. Turn to 104.

69
Endrell isn’t aware of your presence until you leap
down the few remaining steps and strike at him with
your sword! He is off-guard; Test your Skill. If you are
successful, you wound him before he can react. He
loses 2 points from his stAMINA and you regain 1
LUCK point! Whether you succeed or fail, you must
now fight the furious monk.

ENDRELL SKILL 9 STAMINA 11

If you win, turn to 103.

7o

You book yourself a room and eat a hearty breakfast.
You are very tired from riding all night, and you need
to sleep. If you decide to go straight to sleep, turn to
379. If you would rather search the coaching inn
without delay, turn to 122.

71

Chiselled stone steps lead downwards into utterly
dark, infernal depths. You come at last to a plain stone
landing, where you can hear and smell the occupants
before you can see them. Another Ghoul pack is
feasting on the bones of the dead here, snarling and
growling as they feed. They sense your approach

72-73

and are ready when you reach them. You have no
alternative but to fight; you can fight the entire group
as if they were a single opponent.

GHOUL PACK SKILL 9 STAMINA 10

If the Ghouls strike you three times, turn at once to
84. If you win, turn to 149.

72

Whatever you attempt here, the witches intend to
destroy you. You will have to fight for your life! Turn
to 267.

73

Drifting along the passageway towards you is a wispy,
spectral figure; it is vaguely human, with shrivelled
features and bony limbs. The creature gives out a
physical chill, and it scrabbles for your throat like a
blind thing. You could flee this combat; if you want to
run away, turn to 145. If you prefer to stand and fight,
the Witch-wraith is resistant to non-magical weapons.
If you do not have a magic sword, you must roll one
dice whenever you strike it. If you roll 1-4, the
creature loses only 1 STAMINA point instead of the
usual two.

WITCH-WRAITH SKILL 8 STAMINA 6

If you win, did the creature strike you at all? If it did,
roll one dice. If you roll 1 or 2, the life-draining power
of the wraith inflicts grievous harm on you: you must
deduct 1 point from your skit! And is this the worst
of the horrors to be found in this chill and deadly

74-75

place? If you want to continue onwards, turn to 206. If
you prefer to backtrack and take the left fork, turn
to 363. If you decide to return to the surface, turn to

145.

74
Sleep doesn’t come easily: the bed is very hard and it

gets cold at nights. The blankets may be rough but
they don’t keep you warm — they actually help to
keep you awake, they're so ticklish. You toss and turn
fitfully. Will you:
Try to get back to sleep? Turn to 326
Find Endrell to talk some more, if
you haven't done so already?
Find Marcus to talk further, if you
haven’t done so already?
Get up and explore the monastery?

Turn to 132

Turn to 356
Turn to 232

75
You don’t sense the presence of a pair of Ghouls

lurking behind the secret door, but you are aware of
the possibility of a trap, so when they leap out you
are not taken by surprise. You have to fight the
Ghouls together.

SKILL STAMINA
First GHOUL 8 7
Second GHOUL 8 7

If you are struck four times by the Ghouls, turn at
once to 84. If you win, turn to 215.

76

76
Beyond the archway is a chamber so small that its
walls seem to press in on you. The witch must have
slept in a hammock, which you find heavily infested
with lice. You pick up a locked box and flip back the
gilded fastenings. Inside you find a pair of metal
gauntlets, which fit you well; they are magical and will
add 1 to your Attack Strength in combats! You also
find two potion bottles. One, you realize from careful
sniffing and testing, is a Potion of Stamina. This
restores lost STAMINA points equal to half your Initial
total (round fractions up). You can drink it at any time,
except during combat. The other bottle you simply
cannot identify; you will have to find a herbalist or
alchemist to identify it for you, or just take a risk and
swig it some time — but not until matters are desperate!
You will be offered the option of consuming this
unknown potion later when it becomes relevant. This
unknown potion has a series of scratches along the
glass — 11 in all (make a note of this number). Last of
all, you find a single scroll. Unrolling it, you see it is
the witches’ pact with Heydrich, and it is written in
blood! The details are too revolting for you to want to
remember them, but at the very end of the pact there
is a reference to a dreadful-sounding place: the Ghoul-
crypts. Heydrich has gone here to resurrect ancient
allies from part of a great necropolis known as the
Graveyard of Vampires. With this army of undead at
his call, he plans to overwhelm the Old World. The
witches have been offered rulership of Analand in
return for their help in preserving his soul gem, the
red crystal heart which makes him invulnerable —

77-78

unless it can be destroyed. You pocket your treasures
and leave. Now you can make for the cave at the end
of the passage, if you have not been there before (turn
to 206), head for the surface (turn to 145), or unlock
the door in the passage, if you haven't done so
already (turn to 239).

77
As you swallow the potion, your mouth feels as if it is

on fire! For a moment you think you must have
swallowed a mouthful of pepper: a burning pain fills
your lungs and stomach, and you desperately gulp
cold air in — and exhale. What you breathe out is a
wall of fire, which hits the waterfall and instantly
generates a cloud of superheated steam. Standing
where you are, you are almost steamed alive! Deduct
8 points from your STAMINA. If you are still alive, all
you can do is descend using climbing boots and a
rope, if you have them (turn to 196), or dive in and
hope for the best (turn to 263).

78

Igor was a dangerous enemy because of his sword —
this is a magic sword, which will add 1 to your Attack
Strength in combat. Gain 1 Luck point. You also find a
gold ring set with seven moonstones, which is worth 10
Gold Pieces. Gain 2 Blood Points for disposing of one
of Heydrich’s most valued servants! You return to the
passage outside the room. You should now explore
somewhere you have not been before. If you want to
make for the southern door, turn to 131. To explore the
east wing, turn to 399; for the west wing, turn to 144.

79-80

79
You can get absolutely no sense out of the man. He

just keeps repeating, ‘Tell the Count the work will be
done soon.’ You are about to give up on him when
you hear footsteps approaching. You duck behind
the door and wait. The footsteps come to a halt right
outside the door. If your FAITH score is 7 or lower,
turn to 119. If your FAITH score is 8 or higher, turn to
2214.

So

You explain what happened in Endrell’s chambers.
You say that you meant the monk no harm, and that
you fought only in self-defence. You beg Marcus to
come and look at the Mortvanian book you found, but
he does not believe you. He forces you out of his
room and shuts and bolts his door. You're on your
own now and must explore the monastery without
delay. Turn to 232.

81-82

81

“Ye want to take care at the Dome,’ Old Grundy says
as he puffs at his stinking old pipe. ‘Get rockfalls from
above down the airhole, like. And when yer gets past
the flitch of bacon, take the left-hand path towards the
pillars. Go right, and there’s a dead end. Some men
got ate up there by cave eels; there’s a whole nest of
‘em down there. Be careful in the poached egg cham-
ber, there’s lots of gas thereabouts. If there be anything
under the old mines, look below the cascade. There’s a
sheer drop there, down to whatever lies below, like.’
You thank Grundy for his help and reel away from the
stinking miasma of pipe smoke, gratefully breathing in
big gulps of fresh air outside the inn. You follow the
directions he gave you towards the mines, but you
must lose 1 Blood Point for the delay. Turn to 134.

82
Sandar looks down at the destroyed Zombies with an
expression of utter horror. He begins to shake and you
have to sit him down and give him some water and
wine before he can speak. He is indeed the missing
Elder of the monastery you have come from, and he is
appalled when you tell him what happened there. ‘I
knew some evil had come upon us. I warned Sewarth
not to meddle with such evil, it was tempting fate,’ he
laments. ‘I can’t remember anything at all from the
past — what day is it?’ You tell him. “The last three
weeks are a complete blank,’ he says miserably. ‘That
wretched amulet!’ Further talk reveals that Sandar re-
members nothing about Heydrich, the Vampire you
are pursuing. He can scarcely even remember what is

83

in the house. He sits, slumped and sweating with
fear. You suspect that Heydrich must have abducted
and kept him here for some purpose — initially, to
find out what was known by the monks, perhaps,
and later on as a plaything to amuse himself with.
However, you avoided killing him and that was a
noble act. Gain 1 FAITH point. You can take Sandar
back to the hamlet and safety and then go on your
way (turn to 89) or you can explore the house (turn

to 114).

83
Throwing a small missile at such long range is diffi-
cult. Test your Skill, adding 3 to the total rolled. If
you are successful, the Count is splashed by the acid
and loses 2 sTAMINA points; if you roll a total of 2
or 3 on the dice, you manage to hit him fair and
square, and he loses 4 sTAMINA points! Make a note
of any losses to the Count’s STAMINA on your Adven-
ture Sheet. Now, you can fire a longbow, if you have
one (turn to 397), use Blackfire, if you have some
(turn to 231), or rush towards the Vampire with your
sword bared (turn to 273). If you fail, he hurls a
volley of magical darts at you and they burn their

84-86

way into your flesh; deduct 3 points from your
STAMINA. The pain gives you a jolt and you rush at
him; turn to 273.

84
The poisoned claws of the Ghoul paralyse you! It
slobbers with joy as it reaches out to your flesh. Your
adventure ends here!

85

The door here is locked. You can smash it down if you
want to; turn to 109. Alternatively, you can try to pick
the lock. Test your Skill; unless you have a flask of oil
to lubricate the lock, you must add 2 to the total
rolled. If you are successful, turn to 184. If you fail,
you can either try to smash the door down (turn to
109) or give up and search elsewhere (turn to 9).

86
The wolves soon overcome the poor wretch and
gorge themselves on a midnight feast of flesh. When
they are sated, you go over and inspect the bodies.
One of the men has 6 Gold Pieces in a pouch, which
you can take. You must lose 1 Blood Point for the

87-88

delay while waiting, and 2 FAITH points for your
callous indifference to the man’s fate. You will have to
behave more honourably in future, or you will have
no hope of overcoming Heydrich the Vampire! Return
to the trail; turn to 148.

87

Only one road leads eastwards away from the monas-
teries of Lake Libra, so you gallop along it. By good
fortune, after you have ridden for an hour you come
upon a coach which has stopped at the roadside with a
broken axle; asking the coachman, you find out that
the black coach you are pursuing was seen heading
eastwards along this road barely half a hour ago.
Regain 1 Luck point. Your horse seems delighted to
get a decent gallop, and it’s almost dawn by the time
he begins to flag. Now you see a coaching inn by the
roadside, not far ahead. Test your Skill. If you are
successful, turn to 146. If you fail, turn to 189.

88
‘You enter the Count’s dining hall. Silver plates, cutlery
and tureens adorn the lace cloth on the rosewood

89

table which dominates this spacious chamber, and fine
thornwood chairs ring it. A single door leading to the
kitchens can be seen at the eastern end. A large
tigerskin rug is draped over the floor — despite your
misgivings, it isn’t about to come to life and leap on
you. However, the dining-room door slams shut behind
you and locks itself, and suddenly all the cutlery and
crockery on the table flies up into the air and swarms
towards you, beating and thumping you! Deduct 1
point from your STAMINA. Test your Spot Skill. If you
succeed, turn to 248. If you fail, lose another sTAMINA
point through being battered by a ‘foe’ you cannot
fight off! Test your Spot Skill repeatedly until you
either succeed or succumb to the unseen blows.

89
As you set off on your way, the skies darken and peals
of thunder can be heard coming from the north. Dark
clouds scud across the sky and the wind lashes into
your face. You almost have to close your eyes against
the dust and dirt being blown into your face, so the
first you know about the impending danger is when a
Giant Raven pecks at your neck! Fortunately it is only
a glancing blow; deduct 1 point from your sTAMINA.
If you are walking, fight normally. If you are on
horseback, it is hard for you to control your horse and

(ae

go-91

swing a sword at the same time: subtract 1 from your
Attack Strength. If you wish to, you can dismount and
fight normally, but you must lose 2 more STAMINA
points as the Ravens attack you while you are getting
to the ground.

SKILL STAMINA
First GIANT RAVEN 7 6
Second GIANT RAVEN 7 6

If you win, did you fight on horseback for the entire
combat? If you did, turn to 162. Otherwise, turn to

118.

oO
Your snooping has aroused Endrell’s suspicions, and
he has given you a poisoned drink. You fail to wake
up; your adventure ends here.

o1
You find a magnificent suit of chainmail armour in the
tomb room. This adds 1 to your Attack Strength in all
combats — and it has another magical quality. Once,
and only once, you may drain the magic out of the
armour and draw it into yourself. When you do this,
you may add 10 to your Current STAMINA SCOTe, but
the armour loses its magic (and you lose the bonus to
your Attack Strength). Gain 1 Luck point for this
excellent find!

Delighted with your prize, you turn around, to find
the knight’s ghost smiling in the doorway. ‘A wise
choice,’ he says approvingly. ‘That was the armour |
wore, long ago. Wear it well. Because of your wisdom,

92-93

I will allow you to make a second choice.’ You may
now enter one more tomb. Will it be that of:

The first Knight?
The third Knight?
The fourth Knight?
The fifth Knight?

Turn to 113
Turn to 224
Turn to 292
Tum to 314

92

It is the middle of the night, and setting out for the
mansion is not a wise idea when you are still very
sleepy and more than a little shaken by the shock of
your attack. You are not far from the village when
you are overwhelmed by fatigue, and you cannot take
another step. You stumble into a grassy hollow, pull
your blanket over you, and fall asleep. You wake up
on a cloudy, dark morning, stiff and hungry. You feel
weak and lethargic; deduct 2 points from your
STAMINA, and now you must eat a meal. Worse still,
you feel a sharp pang on your neck. To your horror,
you discover that one of the vampire bats of the
mansion has been feasting on your blood during the
night! No wonder you feel so weak. You are suffering
now from Latent Vampirism. You had best get this
cured swiftly, otherwise you will become one of the
Count’s minions! Turn to 49.

93
You prise open the lock and slip into the darkened
room. Using your lantern, a quick examination shows
that all the furniture here has been covered with
drapes and a couple of bookcases and chests have

94

been chained and padlocked. Someone seems to think
that Sewarth isn’t coming back for a very long time —
yet you were told he would be away for only a day or
two. You are growing steadily more suspicious now. It
will be time-consuming to explore this room, but if
you wish to do so turn to 41. Otherwise, you can
search elsewhere in the east wing (turn to 265) or head
for the west wing (turn to 197).

94
The Count has sent his hunter after you! The creature

comes into view in the gloom. It is man-like and
carries a huge wooden club, studded with chunks of
metal. It wears only black sacking and appears to have
been cobbled together from bits of various bodies.
The monster stands an arm’s length taller than you
and is immensely muscular and strong. It seems to be
sniffing at the ground around, as if trailing someone.
But you have the advantage of surprise here. If you
have a longbow, you can fire an arrow at the creature,
so subtract 2 points from the monster's sTAMINA total

t

95

when you meet it. If you don’t have a longbow, you
still gain a slight advantage by leaping out of cover,
so you can add 2 to your Attack Strength in the first
Attack Round. Tum to 190.

95
The Vampyre’s bite goes deep into your throat. You

are bleeding profusely, and from now on you will
automatically lose 1 sTAMINA point each and every
Attack Round (in addition to any other damage from
her attacks) until the combat ends and you can staunch
and bind the wound. Worse still, you have Latent
Vampirism! You need to get this cured swiftly — if you
can! If you already have this affliction, the bite of the
Vampyre pierces your windpipe and you are instantly
killed. Now return to the paragraph you came from
and resume the fight — but if the Vampyre has an
Attack Strength of 21 again during the combat, you
will be killed outright, and your adventure will end in
a fate far worse than death, for you will rise from the
grave as one of Heydrich’s undead servants!

96-97

96
You liberate the ghostly essence of the creature
trapped within! You are in desperate danger now. The
Vampire-Ghost sealed inside the flask attacks at once.
If you do not have a magic sword, you cannot harm
this creature, and you will be slain here.

VAMPIRE-GHOST SKILL Q STAMINA 12

If you win, you gain 1 FAITH point for defeating such
a terrible enemy. Did the Vampire-Ghost strike you
even once? If it did, you must roll one dice, and, if you
roll any number other than 6, you must lose 1 SKILL
point because of the life-draining blow of the infernal
thing. You don’t want to risk another combat of this
type, so you leave at once and search elsewhere. Turn
to 7.

97
With a great effort you force open the door and find

yourself in a cavernous room where a single stone
tomb is all you can see. It has a sculpted surface
depicting a slim and beautiful woman with long, lus-
trous hair. The tomb appears to be sealed, and you
have no way of opening it; somehow you have the
feeling that the tomb is empty anyway. You can
now either go through the illuminated archway far to
the north (turn to 12) or try the other southern
door, if you haven't done so already (tum to 152).
Alternatively, you can leave the crypts and return
to the entrance hall of Mortus Mansion to get your
bearings and find somewhere else to search (turn to
271).

98-100

98

‘Oh, that he says, looking greatly amused. 1 can
give you something for that. I will give it to you
without charge, if you will tell me how you came by
such a malady.’ You don’t want to reveal all the
details, so you make up a tale about encountering a
great bat flying near a monastery — but he wheedles
out of you the name of the monastery. He gives you a
strange stare as he offers you a herbal mixture as a
cure. If you want to drink it, tum to 228. If you don’t
fancy taking the risk, turn to 268.

99
You stumble as you land and you go sprawling on the

rock-hard floor. Meanwhile the witch has conjured a
blast of fiery smoke from her cauldron; lose 3 STAMINA
points. Worse still, a clawed reptilian horror has
emerged from it to slither across the rock and block
your path to her. The green scaly brute isn’t especially
large or menacing, but you will have to slay it before
you can fight the witch herself.

CAULDRON LIZARD

While you are fighting this guardian, the witch is
invoking a lengthy spell. If you kill the lizard before
the fourth Attack Round, turn to 153. If the lizard is
still alive after three Attack Rounds, turn to 111.

SKILL 7 STAMINA 6

100
Roban gives you 5 Gold Pieces and buys you some
food for your journey ahead; add 3 to your Provisions.
He wishes you well and, while he doesn’t want to pry,

101

asks if there is any other help you need. You hesitate
for a moment, then you say that you have come from
a monastery where there has been much trouble; you
are seeking the cause of that trouble. This is true, of
course, but it doesn’t give too much away. You men-
tion the names of the Elders of the monastery, and he
rubs his chin thoughtfully. ‘There are no monks or
monasteries here,’ he says, ‘but there is a scholar here
who, I believe, spent some time at Lake Libra and who
may well know something of use to you. His name is
Harquar, and you can find him at the Golden Goose.
He’s quite sociable for a scholar.’ You thank Roban for
his help. Now, will you:

Buy some supplies or equipment? Turn to 283
Try to find out if there is a sage or

scholar here who may be helpful

to you? Turn to 373
Continue on your way north-

eastwards? Turn to 198
Make for the Golden Goose tavern? Turn to 123
Leave the village altogether? Turn to 304

101
You clamber up into the branches of a tree, and the
howling wolf pack soon appears from the distant forest
and snuffles around at its foot. Wolves aren't good
tree-climbers, however, and you are safe here. If you
have a horse with you, though, the wolves attack and
eat it. The wolves do not leave until daybreak; you lose
1 Blood Point for the delay and, because you can’t rest
or sleep, you must eat a meal and still lose 2 sTAMINA

Pc llc ems

102-103

points from fatigue. When the wolves have departed,
you can return to the main trail. Turn to 148.

102
A terrible yelping scream, like some horror from the
Abyss, howls all round you — and you soon see why:
a horror from the Abyss has indeed been summoned
to deal with you! A huge hound, as long from snout
to barbed tail as you are tall, stands before you,
breathing fire. and acid. Its paws are the size of a
horse’s hoof, and its teeth are as long as daggers. Its
snarl freezes the very blood in your veins! You have
just a little time to run after the monstrosity has
materialized in mid-air in front of you. You can get to
the first door along the passage and open it safely,
slamming it behind you to keep the horror out. If you
choose to do this, turn to 222. If you want to make a
dash for the door at the far end of the passage, you'll
have to run like a hare with a gale blowing behind it
if you're going to make it. If you want to try, turn to
266. If you decide to stand and fight, turn to 322.

103
The corridor leads into a maze of catacombs and
passageways. The skeletons of long-dead monks gaze
at you from alcoves in the walls, and bones, dust and
cobwebs are everywhere. You hardly know where to
begin exploring down here. This is going to take you
quite some time. Roll one dice and divide the number by
2, rounding fractions up; this is the number of Blood
Points you lose during your extended search. Eventually
you see a silver tube gleaming in an alcove, and

104

cautiously you take it down. Inside are some carefully
copied notes, made by Sewarth himself. You sit down
to read by the light of your lantern, your heart beating
fast.

‘Heydrich knows of our letters. I believe he has even
corrupted this place with his influence. But is it
Endrell, Marcus or Sandar he has tainted? All of them
avoid me now, yet none is a vampire himself — I am
sure of that. Heydrich must have corrupted his victim
with the lure of power, or hypnotized him into his
service. I must send word to Henrik regarding the
Soul Gem the Vampire now has; until it is found, he
will be invulnerable, it will be absolutely impossible
to slay him. I know who crafted it, and what magic
was used — I have recorded these facts in my Codex,
which I have hidden carefully. And I know where
Heydrich has made his home in these lands.’

Alas, the map that was sketched below these notes is
illegible — it is smeared and smudged. However, you
are sure that, wherever the monster may be, he lies to
the north-east from here, but you cannot tell exactly
where. But at least you have learned of some secret of
his, a magically crafted gem, so gain 2 Blood Points.
Of the precious Codex, which could tell you so much,
there is no sign. Turn to 2.

104
You must fight the animated Skeleton Horde as if it
were one opponent.

SKELETON HORDE SKILL 8 STAMINA 13

105-107

If you win, you can take the left-hand turning (turn to.

164) or walk straight ahead (turn to 202).

105 .
Halfway down the stairs you bump into the landlord
and he sees blood on your sleeve! His eyes widen and
he pushes past you into the old man’s room. You run
out of the tavern as he starts bellowing, calling out the
town militia. As you run towards the edge of the
village, a couple of burly warriors from the guard yell
at you to halt. If you decide to stop and tell them the
truth about what happened, turn to 160. If you prefer
to keep on running, turn to 1.

106

As the mist-cloud drifts into the archway, you notice a
sudden flare of silvery light round the edges of the
left-hand archway opposite. This makes you suspicious!
Will you now enter the darkness of the right-hand
archway (turn to 217) or the left-hand archway (turn
to 284), or will you perform some other action (turn to
192)?

107
You push open the door of an unused guest room. If
you wish to do so, you can make a brief search; Test
your Luck. If you are Lucky, you find 3 Gold Pieces in
a pouch carelessly left behind. If you are Unlucky, you
find nothing. If you don’t want to Test your Luck, you
don’t have to do so. Now you must search the east
wing further (turn to 265) or make for the west wing
(turn to 197).

108—109

108

As you approach the stables, the dark coach with its
horseman bolts from inside. The horses gallop away
like the wind. You race for your own horse, but two
burly stablemen stand in your way. ‘’Ere, we fed and
watered ‘im,’ one of them says. ‘Ate almost his own
weight, he did, greedy devil.’ You stare, dismayed, at a
very smug, fat-bellied and probably slow horse. ‘Cost
yer a gold, that will.’ If you have a Gold Piece and are
prepared to pay to get your horse back, turn to 17. If
you haven't any gold left or if you won't pay, you
could fight the stablemen; turn to 59 if you choose to
do this. If you choose not to take your horse, do you
have a Codex with you? If you have, you know how
many pages it has; turn to the paragraph with the
same number. Otherwise, turn to 279.

109

This door contains a vicious trap, for one of the
Count’s best-guarded secrets lies behind it. Whirring
metal blades fly from the door frame and cut deep into
your arms and legs; lose 4 sTAMINA points, and you
must now Test your Luck. If you are Lucky, you suffer
no worse consequences. If you are Unlucky, you must
lose 1 point from your skiLt because of the damage to
your weapon arm. Turn to 184.

110-111

110
You follow a long and winding passage with miners’
marks scratched on the walls, but as you do not know
their secret signs you cannot decode them. As the
passage widens, holes in the walls wide enough to
stick an arm into begin to appear. Some have rotted
timbers still stuck inside them, but others are hollow.
As you use your lantern to peer into the gloom ahead,
the mottled head of a Rock Eel strikes with amazing
speed out of one of the holes and tries to sink its jaws
into you. The thing has four very sharp front teeth,
and if it bites you it will hang on like a limpet! As you
strike at the Eel, other heads and jaws shoot out
through the holes and attack you! Fight the Eel pack as
if it were one opponent. If you are struck twice,
enough Eels have got their teeth into you to slow you
down and make it hard for you to move, so you must

subtract 1 from your Attack Strength for the remainder
of this fight.

ROCK EEL PACK SKILL 8 STAMINA 10

If you win, you see many more of the Rock Eels ahead
and your lantern throws a beam wide enough to show
that you have blundered into a dead end. All you can
do is retrace your steps and take the other bridge
across the chasm behind you. Turn to 307.

111
The witch completes her spell, and you feel yourself
weaken. Roll two dice. If the total rolled is equal to or
greater than your FAITH score, you must subtract 2
from your Attack Strength until you vanquish her. If

112-113

the total is less than your FAITH score, you must
subtract 1 point from your Attack Strength until you

defeat her. Turn to 153.

112
You remember to push the bedroom door shut before
you jump into the wardrobe, and you are fortunate.
Endrell enters, noticing nothing amiss; he yawns, lies
down and is soon asleep. You tip-toe out of the room and
he doesn’t wake up. Regain 1 Luck point. Now, will you:

Return to your room and go back to

sleep? Turn to 326
Look for-Marcus to talk with him, if

you haven't done so already? Turn to 356
Explore elsewhere in the monastery? Turn to 232

113

This tomb room contains a single stone sarcophagus and,
still lying on the tomb, a fine scabbard set with jewels.
The scabbard is magical, and you can draw your sword
from it with astonishing speed! In the first — and only the
first! — Attack Round of any combat, when you attack

114-116

with a sword, you may add 2 to your Attack Strength.
Now you must leave. The knight's ghost ushers you out
of the tomb, and you make for the door half-way along
the passage beyond the tombs and open it. Turn to 393.

114

Doors lead to the east and the west from this room. If
you want to open the door to the east, turn to 193. If
you want to head west, turn to 238.

115
One of the witches seems to be intrigued by you,

while the others look at you with hate-filled eyes
Turn to 43. |

116
The claws of the horror are encrusted with filth and
rotting flesh, and as it strikes you it poisons your
blood. You now have Bloodbane (make a note of this
on your Adventure Sheet). This will weaken you slowly
over time, so you will have to find help and healing

within a few days. Tum to 172.

117-119

117

‘You must first find the soul gem the witches of Crab
Peak crafted for Reiner,’ the ghost tells you. ‘Until you
have that, you cannot destroy Reiner.’ Siegfried gives
you instructions for finding Crab Peak, far to the west.
You have no time to waste. Siegfried dismisses you
with a wave of the hand and you are returned to your
own world and find yourself outside Mortus Mansion.
Turn to 57.

118
Your horse (if you had one) has bolted! From now on,
you have to go on foot. This loses you time; lose 1
Blood Point. Also, if you have Bloodbane, you must
subtract 1 from each of your Current and Inifial
STAMINA scores. Turn to 162.

119

The saddler turns to the unseen person outside the
room and mutters, ‘Tell the Count the work will soon
be done.’ The footsteps retreat into the distance. Gain
1 LUCK point for avoiding a very unpleasant encounter!
Now you may take the lantern (turn to 286) or decide
to leave the coach-house and make for the main
mansion house (turn to 46).

Soe

120-121

120

The letters contain a couple of diagrams of mystical
wards which Sewarth and Harquar had experimented
on. One of these looks very like the pattern you can
see glowing faintly in the archway. You follow the
instructions in the letter for removing the barrier and,
to your delight, it winks out of existence! Gain 1 LUCK
point. Turn to 76.

121

The fiery horror can burn for only a very short time,
then it will be destroyed. For two Attack Rounds,
however, it is able to fight you. If you have the higher
Attack Strength, when it tries to strike you it misses. If
it has the higher Attack Strength, it will damage you
with a dreadful mixture of acid, fire and superheated
metal; if the monster strikes you, you must lose 4
STAMINA points. If you are still alive when the monster
dies, turn to 294.

122-123

122

You find a young chambermaid taking fresh linen and
bedding out of a cupboard; you ask her if there are
any rooms she has been told not to enter. She giggles a
little and says that the gentleman in room number five
doesn’t want to be disturbed on account of the young
lady with him, who isn’t really his wife. You interrupt to
say that this doesn’t interest you. Looking thoughtful,
she says that she isn’t to go into — and then she stops
dead and her eyes glaze over. It is as if she has a mental
block and cannot speak about something. Intrigued, you
don’t press the point but walk away. However, you hang
around in the corridors and observe that she puts clean
bedding outside all the rooms bar two: the fifth room
and one at the far end of the corridor. You wait for the
young girl to leave, and now you have a simple choice.
You can enter that farthest room (turn to 26) or go back
to your own room and get some rest (turn to 379).

123
The Golden Goose is a flashy place frequented by the
well-to-do, and the guard standing at the door to keep
riff-raff out looks like a half-Troll. Certainly he doesn’t
care much for the look of you. You will have to bribe
him with 1 Gold Piece to get in. If you pay up, turn to
52. If you can’t or won't pay, will you:

124

Buy some supplies or equipment? Turn to 283
Leave Farleigh and set off north-
eastwards after Heydrich? Turn to 198

Leave Farleigh for some other area? Turn to 304

124

‘All my gold, yes, and my magic too! I’ve got a
lovely pair of gauntlets for you, dearie, that I have. All
in there! Just don’t kill me!’ She tells you the magical
key words which she says will bypass the magical
ward on the archway. The cowardly witch slobbers
and drools and cries to herself. You know the witches
are in league with him, so you ask her about Count
Heydrich, the Vampire you seek. But she grows terri-
fied and will not speak of him beyond muttering a few
words. “The heart,’ you hear her whisper. “The heart!’
You force the truth out of her: her sister has the
crystal heart of Count Heydrich. The three witches
together enchanted the thing to restore him to life —
or to undeath, to be more accurate — and in return
Heydrich has offered them the rulership of southern
Analand, ‘after he has brought back —’ and then she
will say no more. You can now kill her (turn to 64) or
tie her up and leave her here while you explore this
place. If you do the latter, Test your Spot Skill. If you
are successful, turn to 168. If you fail, turn to 386.

125-127

125
As you leave the kitchen, a chilly draught tells you
, ! Beiter that the front doors to the monastery are open. There
NUN AY m ; ‘
Ait | ii Ha a ed is no sign of any monk, but the southern door in the
Nyy ——_ west wing is open and the corpse of a monk has been
Ke dragged to the doorway; blood has seeped along
almost the whole passageway. You gape at the terrible
sight, then you hear the sound of horses whinnying
outside. You rush to the door in time to see a black
coach with its driver pulling on the reins of four black
stallions, as a caped figure disappears into the coach! If
you want to attack the occupant of the coach, turn to

214. If discretion makes you decide not to do this, turn
to 371.

il

\ ENYS, oN You knock on the door. There is no reply from inside
Srila My tet the room and nothing happens for a few seconds.
| he ; Ww Then, extraordinarily, the figure of a tiny Imp emerges
H an NN fom the wooden surface of the door, as if it were
Wi : surfacing from a pond. It has a pin in its right
| Ne , hand which it pokes into your face! Lose 1 STAMINA

‘y point. Then the Imp vanishes. You can now explore

elsewhere (turn to 7) or force the door open (turn
to 313).

127

If your FAITH score is 5 OT higher, when the monster
approaches it shrinks back in fear of you. You can now
zo on to the house (turn to 166) or return to the trail

of the Vampire (turn to 89). If your FAITH score is 7 OF
below, you must fight.

128-129

MORTVANIAN ZOMBIE © skILL7 ~~ STAMINA 7

If you win, you find a single Gold Piece in the hay.
Now you can go up to the house (turn to 166) or
think better of it and head off north-eastwards after
the Count (turn to 89).

128

Shaking and startled, you finally overcome your evil
opponent. Gain 2 Blood Points for slaying one of the
Count’s servitors! The young man stirs and groans:
you bind his wound and help him to a sitting position.
He mumbles, ‘She was so beautiful,’ but he seems to
be rambling so that you can’t get any sense out of
him. You help him into Stunkaster and take him to the
small tavern where, by good fortune, it turns out that
he is the son of the landlord. Gain 1 Luck point. You
are given free board and lodgings for the night. Turn
to 226, but ignore the instruction about payment in
that paragraph. /

129
You should know better than to enter the kitchens,
where four of the Count’s Zombie servants are busy
chopping up food with heavy meat cleavers. They
turn and look at you with vacant expressions on their
slowly disintegrating faces. Roll one dice and add 4. If
the total is less than your FAITH score, the Zombies
back away from you as you approach, allowing you to
explore the kitchens; turn to 324. If the total is equal
to or greater than your FAITH score, the Zombies
attack you at once. They are slow, however, and you

130-131

may flee this combat if you want to. If you decide to
run, turn to 399. If you decide to stand and fight, fight
the Zombies as if each pair was a single opponent.

SKILL STAMINA
First ZOMBIE PAIR 7 8
Second ZOMBIE PAIR 8 8

If you win, turn to 324.

130
The Revenant is destroyed by the magic you employ.
Before you lies the entrance to the crypts of Mortus
Mansion. If you are carrying some letters and wish to
consult them now, you know how many pages they
comprise. Multiply that number by ten, then turn to
the paragraph with the same number. If you do not
have these letters, you have a simple choice: you can
either enter the crypts now (turn to 187) or search
elsewhere in the mansion (turn to 7); but make a note
on your Adventure Sheet that you can return to the
entrance to the crypts later on by turning to 187.

131
This door is locked. If you want to open it, you can
either smash it down (if you do this, turn to 194, or
try to pick the lock. If you want to pick the lock, you
must Test your Skill, adding 2 to the dice roll, because
this is not a simple task. If you have a flask of oil to
lubricate the lock mechanism, though, you do not
have to add 2 to the total rolled. If you are successful,
turn to 235. If you fail, turn to 194.

132-133

132

You leave your bedroom and make your way, along
the passages, to where you were taken when you first
arrived. You knock at the door of the study room, but
there is no answer. You try the door, and find it open.
Peering inside, you see that the bed here has not been
slept in. There is no sight of Endrell. Will you:

Go back to your room and go back

to sleep? Turn to 326
Search this room? Turn to 186
Try to find Marcus and talk to him,

if you haven't done so already? Turn to 356
Explore the monastery further? Turn to 232

133
Holding the Basilisk’s head as your prize, you take it
to the waiting Shevala. She cackles with glee, dumps
the horrible relic in a cauldron, and sets about an
enchantment. You remind her that she agreed to help
you kill Carollar and take her treasure; but the vile
witch simply spits in your face and tells you to do

134-135

your worst! If you want to attack Shevala, turn to 201.
If you decide to go and deal with Carollar herself, turn
to 277. If you want to retreat from the area but keep a
watch on it, turn to 245.

134

A long, winding path leads down to the old lead
mines. Stepping carefully over the debris of rock and
leaves blown in from outside, you descend into the
entrance cave. Rotted pit-props and the drip of water
from above warn you that the place is hardly safe to
walk in, but you must press onwards. Ahead of you,
to your left, is a domed chamber with many rocks on
the floor and a chink of daylight beaming down; the
glint of metal is visible in the middle of the rock
clutter. If you want to explore the domed chamber,
turn to 167. If you want to go straight on past it, turn

tO 275.

135
The door here is locked. You don’t want to rouse the

entire monastery by smashing it down, so you try to
pick the lock with your knife. Test your Skill. If you are

ee en

136-137

successful, you open the door; turn to 93. If you fail,
you can explore elsewhere in the east wing (turn to
265) or make for the west wing instead (turn to 197).

136

Your feet crunch on the gravel in the courtyard,
betraying your presence. Howls rend the air not far
ahead of you, and the forms of great wolves lope into
sight through the mist. Their breath frosts in the cold
air, and their eyes glow red with malice and hunger! If
you have a werewolf amulet, you know how many
gems are set into it; turn to the paragraph with the
same number. If you do not have this artefact, you will
have to fight the wolves. Fight the wolf pack as if it
were one opponent.

WOLF PACK SKILL 8 STAMINA 11

If you win, you find yourself at the back door of the
mansion house. Beside it is what appears to be a
wood-chopping shed. If you want to explore the shed,
turn to 188. If you prefer to open the back door, turn
to 207.

137
You must now explore somewhere you haven't been
before. Will you:

Open the door at the end of the

corridor? Turn to 208
Explore the eastern side of the
house? Turn to 193

Leave and go on your way? Turn to 300

——_— — me ee —=ee eee

138

138

As you ready yourself to attack the Count, a network
of magical force winds itself tightly round him. Clearly
he is drawing energy from the pictures of the Vampire
Elders round the chamber. They must be magical,
channelling the essence of the Elders into him. Of
course! Now it make sense to you. Heydrich is not
summoning an army of Vampires, as you were told.
Rather, he is drawing into himself all the undead
energies of the sleeping Vampires here, to turn him
into a super-Vampire, utterly indestructible and imposs-
ible to resist. The Vampire is already staring at you
through blood-red eyes, You must possess the red
crystal heart from the witches if you are to destroy
him. If you do not have this, you cannot overcome the
vampire, and your adventure ends here. If you have
this artefact, you know how many facets it has. Sub-
tract ten from the number of its facets, then multiply
this lower number by four to arrive at a final total.
(For example, if the heart has 40 facets, you would
turn to paragraph 120: 40-20 is 30; multiplying 30
by 4 gives 120.) Turn to the paragraph with the same
number as this final total.

139-140

139

The room on the other side of the door is in darkness,
and you fumble to light your lantern in order to see
beyond the thick satin drapes hanging behind the door.
A sweet, rich perfume wafts from inside the room.
You light your lantern and are just pushing through
the curtains when they are drawn aside by eager
female hands. You are greeted by two deathly pale
young women, clad in ornate black gowns, their finger-
nails long and red-painted and their ruby-red lips
parted to show long, canine teeth! Fresh blood drips
from their lips: they have eaten recently — but they
want your blood, too. You have blundered into the
room containing the Count’s enslaved Vampyres! You
can fight them one at a time in the doorway.

SKILL STAMINA
First VAMPYRE fe) 10
Second VAMPYRE 9 9

If either Vampyre has an Attack Strength of 21 at any
time, make a note of this paragraph number, then turn
at once to gs. If you win, turn to 353.

140

As you approach the stables, a dark horse bolts from
inside with a cloaked figure riding it; the horse gallops
away like the wind. You race for your own horse, but
two burly stablemen stand in your way. ‘Ere, we fed
and watered ‘im,’ one of them says. ‘Ate almost his
own weight, he did, greedy devil.’ You gaze in dismay
at a very smug, flat-bellied and probably slow horse.
‘Cost yer a gold, that will.’ If you have a Gold Piece

See SS eee

Bi ( em ll,

141-142

and are prepared to pay to get your horse back, turn to
17. If you haven't any gold left or if you won't pay, you
could attack the stablemen; turn to 59 if you choose to
do this. If you prefer not to take your horse, turn to 203.

141,
You rummage through the papers lying about in
Harquar’s study, looking for anything that may be of
help. To your amazement, you find a letter in Henrik’s
handwriting and, tied up with it, some notes. You don’t
have any time to read them now, so you stuff them
inside your shirt to read later. You have taken 15
sheets of paper, so make a note of this number. You
could also snaffle 8 Gold Pieces from a desk drawer if
you want to. If you do this, you must Test your Luck. If
you are Lucky, turn to 157. If you are Unlucky, turn to
212. If you don’t want to take the gold, turn to 157.

142
You open a door to a servant's empty room. It smells
of stale clothing and sweat and is dirty and unpleasant.
You don’t bother wasting your time exploring here, so

143-144

you return to the passage outside. Find somewhere
you have not investigated yet. Will you?

Open the southern door? Turn to 131
Explore elsewhere in the east wing? Turn to 399
Explore the west wing? Turn to 144

143
You swig the potion down. You feel as if you have

just drunk a mixture of liquid pepper and chillies, and
your inside is on fire! You feel gas rising into your
mouth and an enormous gout of flame bursts forth.
The Megaghoul is enveloped in flame — but even the
magic of your potion doesn’t kill it outright. It lumbers
towards you, an undead fireball, its superheated iron
claws reaching out for you! Turn to 121.

; 144
You push open the door on the west side of the main

entrance hall of Mortus Mansion. This part of the
house is well guarded, as you are about to discover.

145

The large and almost bare chamber you enter has a
door opposite you in the west wall, and standing in
front of it is a raggle-taggle pack of Ghouls. Roll one
dice and add 3 to the number rolled. If the total is less
than or equal to your FAITH score, some of these
Ghouls will edge away as you approach and will flee
the combat to come; you can deduct 1 from the skILL
and 3 from the sTAMINA of the Ghoul pack you must
fight. If the total is greater than your FAITH, you
must fight the whole pack of Ghouls as a single
opponent.

GHOUL PACK SKILL 8 STAMINA 12

If you are struck three times by Ghouls, turn at once
to 84. If you win, you open the western door and go
through it. Turn to 175.

Have you slain the second witch, Carollar? If you
haven't, you must go to her cave and find her; turn to
277. If you have overcome her, but you have not been
to Count Heydrich’s mansion house to the north-east,
then you must go there now; turn to 219. If you have
done both these things, then you know the name of
the place you must find next. Change the letters of
that name to numbers using the code A = 1, B = 2

146-148

and so on, then add the numbers together and add
five to the new total. Turn to the paragraph with the
same number. If you don’t know the name of that
place, you cannot pursue the Vampire further and your
adventure ends here.

146
You rode swiftly indeed. You see a black coach being
pushed into the stables outside the coaching inn. He
must be here! Gain 1 Blood Point. Turn to 189.

147
You grunt and heave with all your might until the

gates seem to be on the point of giving — then they
suddenly fly open, and a gravel path lies in front of
you. However, the stone Gargoyles on top of the
gateposts are swooping down to attack you! You
must fight them together.

SKILL STAMINA
First GARGOYLE 8 7
Second GARGOYLE 7 7

If you win, turn to 299.

148
Exhausted, you reach the village of Farleigh at last.
You are desperate for sleep and food. If you have a
merchant with you, he will pay for a room at the
Goblin Hunter, the best inn in the place. If you have
arrived alone, you will have to pay 1 Gold Piece to
stay here. If you don’t have any money, or if you

Ba ee

149

won't pay, you can sleep rough, but you must eat a
meal. If you arrived on horseback, by now your mount
is getting fatigued and restless and is in no fit shape
for further travel; you can sell him here for 5 Gold
Pieces. After resting, will you:

Talk to the merchant whose life you
saved? Turn to 216

Buy some supplies or equipment? Turn to 283
Try to find out if there is a sage or

scholar here who may be helpful

to you? Turn to 373
Continue on your way north-

eastwards? Turn to 198
Make for another area, away from

Farleigh? Turn to 304

149

Pushing past the fallen Ghouls, you notice a door,
opposite the stairs you arrived by, and force it open.
Again, you find yourself striding along a passage with
wall-alcoves on either side. These are bigger than any
you have seen before, and a wooden door is set flush
into the back of each. Examining them more closely,
you see that each door has a hardened crystal viewing
lens set into it, and you soon discover that beyond
each door is a room with a single coffin in it, shrouded
in black. A magical red glow suffuses the rooms. The
coffins are open, and each contains a sleeping figure.
You scarcely need to be told that these are Vampires —
Vampire Elders, in fact, sleeping the sleep of ages here,
banished to eternal slumber by the Knights of the

150

Thorn. However, even as you gaze at them, the figures
grow restless. They look like dreamers lost in a disturb-
ing reverie, and their bodies toss and turn. A low
groan escapes the lips of one of the monsters. Clearly
something is happening to them: perhaps they are
being awoken even as you watch! You look around
frantically for a way forward. At the end of the
passageway you find another door, much heavier and
thicker than the rest. It is locked, and you will have to
smash it down! Turn to 161.

150
The letters include a sketch map of the crypts! This
shows that, there is a passage which descends west-
wards and then turns north. At the point where it
turns north, there is a secret door on the west side.
Further on, the passage winds to the west and ends at
a door. There’s also a side-turning to the north along
this western passage, ending at another door — and the
symbol of a skull and crossbones tells you that it is
not wise to enter here! Beyond the western door the
map is marked only in large letters: ‘? LAIR!’ You
decide to enter the crypts and follow the passage to
the point where the secret door should be. If your
FAITH score is 8 or higher, turn to 48. If it is 7 or
below, turn to 75.

151-152

ime 7 It is getting dark as you approach the brooding granite
—_ Y mass of Crab Peak. An extraordinary, isolated outcrop
of rock with almost sheer sides, the peak of the crag is
broken into two distinct and claw-like formations
which do indeed resemble the pincers of a crab. It
strikes you that the land here is very barren, unlike
Analand’s normal fertile uplands; grass and vegetation
are stunted and rank. Fragmented boulders, some of
great size, are scattered around on the peak; it looks as
if the wizards’ duel shattered them and scattered them
all over this desolate upland. By great good fortune, as
you approach from the cover of these scattered rocks
you spot two crones in tattered black cloaks, standing
arguing and screaming at each other in the distance.
Between them is the stone statue of a third hag, and
the two gesture at it and keep on screaming at each
other. You think you can see the entrance to a cave in
the craggy outcrop behind them. They are speaking in
a strange tongue that you don’t understand. Will you:

Attack the crones? Turn to 267
Go up and speak with the crones? Turn to 344
Wait behind cover and wait to see

what happens? Turn to 245

152
You open the door to the tomb-chamber of Count
Reiner Heydrich! The stone lid of the tomb itself
opens with a grinding sound as you enter, and the
Count clutches at the edge of the tomb with long-
fingered nails, sitting upright even as you rush to

ee ee: )=—- ee ee

153-154

attack. With one bound, the black-cloaked figure leaps
out to face you. If you have a red crystal heart, you
know how many facets it has. Double that number and
add 20 to reach a final total. Turn to the paragraph
with that total. Otherwise, roll two dice and add 2. If
the total is higher than your FAITH score, turn to 209.
If the total is lower than or equal to your FAITH score,
turn to 258.

153
The witch makes a grab for the poisoned dagger in
her cloak, but it goes skittering away from her across
the floor! Gain 1 Lyck point. However, she does have
a long skewering knife to attack you with. If you do
not have a magic sword, you cannot harm her, and
you will die here. If you have a magic sword, fight on!

CAROLLAR SKILL 10 STAMINA 10

If you win, gain 1 FAITH point! Exploring the cavern,
you find a rock which can be rolled away to reveal an
alcove beyond. Turn to 220.

154

You climb into the wardrobe and hold your breath —
then you curse yourself: you have forgotten to close
Endrell’s bedroom door! As he comes in, he is clearly
suspicious. You are just wondering whether to step
out of your hiding place and apologize when he raises
a wooden staff circled with ten metal bands, which he
is carrying, spins around, and points directly at you —
he can see where you are! From the tip of the staff,
glowing greenish-yellow darts of magical power streak

155

through the wardrobe door, splintering and smashing
the wood, and hammer into your chest. You feel as if
some animal with razor-sharp claws had gored you
and you cry out in pain. Deduct 4 points from your
STAMINA. Now you will have to fight the furious
monk.

ENDRELL SKILL 9 STAMINA 11

If you win, you know you will have to explore the
monastery quickly. Something must be wrong here:
this was no peaceable scholar — he fought like a crazy
man. Will you now try to find Marcus, the other Elder
monk (turn to 356), or explore elsewhere in the monas-
tery (turn to 232)?

155
The Codex gives you more information about Count
Reiner Heydrich than you had dared hope for. It tells
you that he bought a mansion house in the plains to
the east, and that he is using it as his lair for the time
being. The Soul Gem was crafted by three witches
living in the shadows of the Great Wall itself, and at
the moment they possess it. Sewarth did not learn
why they crafted this terrible thing, nor the nature of
their deal with the Vampire. However, specific mention
is made of a place called Crab Peak, and the witches
live near by. The last few pages of the book are
desperately ominous. Sewarth’s notes refer to an un-
known place where Heydrich hopes to raise a veritable
army of Vampires to serve him. You shudder at the
thought; such a force would be impossible to resist —
the whole land would be overwhelmed. Sewarth’s

eee

156-158

maps in the Codex pinpoint the mansion house and
show roughly where the witches are to be found. If
you want to set off for the mansion house, turn to
279. If you prefer to make for the witches, turn to 57.

156

You force the door at last, the frame giving way as
the wood splinters and cracks. The room behind the
door is shrouded in black and red silk clothes, and a
familiar sight greets you in the middle of the otherwise
bare room: one of the Count’s coffins! Unfortunately,
one of the Count’s Vampyre maidens is also here,
protecting the resting-place of her master. Roll two
dice. If the total rolled is less than your FAITH score,
turn to 229. If the total is equal to or greater than
your FAITH, turn to 251.

157

The Watch arrives to find you apparently standing
guard over the place. They take your statement —
which they find hard to believe, but at least there is a
large puddle of slime as evidence. Clearly they regard
you as an outsider who has brought trouble to the
village, and they want you out. You have to set off to
the north-east (turn to 198) or perhaps make for some
other area (turn to 304).

158
As soon as you enter, the figure turns towards you
and you are not surprised when only a skull with
glowing red eye-sockets presents itself to you as the
cowl of its cloak turns towards you. The Glassblower

159

is a lethal enemy, one of Heydrich’s feared Skeletal
Stranglers. You have got yourself into desperate
trouble here.

THE GLASSBLOWER SKILL 9 STAMINA 10

In each of the first three Attack Rounds, the undead
thing will snatch up a filled glass vessel from the table
and try to smash it against your body. If it has the
higher Attack Strength, it is successful and you will have
to lose 4 STAMINA points through being doused in
corrosive acid. If you have the higher Attack Strength,
you manage to deflect the improvised weapon before it
can damage you. After three Attack Rounds, the creature
will grab your throat and begin to strangle you and you
must lose 1 STAMINA point automatically, each and
every Attack Round, until you manage to slay the thing.
You must still work out Attack Strengths as normal. If
you have the higher Attack Strength, you can strike and
damage the monster. If it has the higher Attack Strength,
your blow is parried. If you win, turn to 296.

159

You are about to sink into sleep when you hear the
floorboards creak outside your room. You grab your
sword and manage to pull on your leather armour just
before the door is smashed open by a pair of burly,
dark-haired men, armed with clubs. You back up into a
corner of the room to fight them one at a time.

SKILL STAMINA
First RUFFIAN 7 7
Second RUFFIAN 7 7

ir el ee ee

160-162

After you have slain your first enemy, if you reduce
the second ruffian’s sTAMINA to 3 points or less
without killing him outright, turn to 240. If you kill
him, turn to 333.
160

The militia arrest you for the murder of old Henrik —
after all, you have his gold in your pocket, and
everyone saw you talking to him last night: obviously
you planned to kill him for his gold and sneak off at
dawn! Your adventure ends here.

161
Time is very precious and you are very close to the
Count now! To knock down the door, you must Test
your Skill, adding 2 to the total rolled. If you succeed,
turn to 237. If you fail, lose 1 Blood Point, then try
again. You have to go on trying until you succeed,
losing 1 Blood Point for every failure.

162

There must be still quite some way to go to Heydrich’s
mansion house, if Henrik’s sketch map is anything like
accurate. After a long day’s journeying, you must now
eat another meal. You decide to put in another hour or
so of travel before the last day of the daylight fades —
and you notice that the road ahead of you is growing

163

very misty and foggy. Strangely enough, the woodland
to either side of the road does not appear to be
covered by the thick mist at all. You don’t like the
look of this. Will you:

Continue ahead through the mist?

Go to your right through the
woods? Turn to 272

Go to your left through the woods? Turn to 308

Turn to 223 _

You destroy the Count’s most treasured and important
resting-place! You gain 10 Blood Points, but now you
must also Test your Skill. If you are successful, you
suffer no ill-effects. If you fail, you are splashed by
some of the Vampire essences infusing the coffin. This
will weaken you subtly when you have to fight a
Vampyre or Vampire. If such a monster attempts to
hypnotize you, you must add 2 to any total you are
told to roll on the dice, so make a note of this now on
your Adventure Sheet! You leave the chamber and head
along the passage towards the two doors, one half-
way down on your left, and the other at the far end
on your right. If you want to open the first of these
doors, turn to 393. If you want to open the other one,
turn to 14.

es ee

164-166

164

The side-passage ends at a black wooden door with
silver banding, but between you and the door are
several wall-alcoves housing Ghoul-like figures. You
cannot see them distinctly because they are shrouded
in Opaque cocoons, like grisly undead insects, waiting
to spring out and strike you down should you enter
this passage. If you have found a lantern with coloured
lenses, you know it shows images just like these. If
you light it here, it will keep the undead in abeyance.
If you have the lantern, you know what colour light it
casts. Convert that colour to a number by changing
the letters of the colour to numbers using the code
A = 1, B = 2, C = 3 and so on. Add the numbers
together to get a total then turn to the paragraph with
the same number. Otherwise, all you can do is prepare
to attack these creatures (turn to 20) or think better of
it and go back to the main passage, heading further
into the Ghoulcrypts (turn to 202).

165
The mist-cloud has entered the darkness of the right-
hand archway. Will you follow it (turn to 2417) or
enter the left-hand archway (turn to 284) or perform

ee Ms Ct some other action (turn to 192)?

166
You knock loudly on the front door, and soon a grey-
haired, tall man in a rich brown-and-yellow robe opens
the door to you. He hardly needs to ask why you are
here, but ushers you into his study. There is nothing
particularly unusual about the place; the furniture is

167

comfortable, though. When he pours two glasses of
wine, you take the glass nearer him, just in case! He
does not tell you his name but waits to hear your
story. If you have Bloodbane, turn to 98. If you want
to ask about his magical or healing skills generally,
turn to 268.

167

A quick search reveals that the metal is only the rusted
iron of miners’ picks and spades, useless to you. You
were unwise to stand under this unstable sinkhole and
a rockfall tumbles down on you! Test your Skill. If you
are successful, you manage to get your shield above
your head in time to avoid all but glancing blows.
Deduct 1 point from your sTAMINA but gain 1 LUCK
point. If you fail, heavy rocks and stones crash down
on top of you and you must lose 4 sTAMINA points.
Turn to 275.

168-169

168

As you are looking for some rope to tie her up with,
you see Shevala’s hand suddenly disappear inside her
stinking robe, then draw out a vial. You grab her hand
just in time and snatch the Potion of Stamina away as
she is about to drink it! Gain 1 Luck point. You can
drink this potion at any time (except during combat)
and it will restore stAMINA points equal to half your
Initial total, rounding fractions up. You tie up the
witch and gag her for good measure. You also take
some keys from her; you guess that these must unlock
the door you passed in the passage. If you want to go
and open that door now, turn to 239. If you want to
go through the archway, despite the magical barrier
on it, turn to 264. If you want to return to the surface,
turn to 145. If you want to explore the passage
outside this cavern to its very end, not having done so
before, turn to 206.

169

You know where to go: to the Ghoulcrypts. But do
you know where they are? If you do, then you also
know how many Knights of the Thorn are buried
there. Multiply that number by four, then subtract
one, to get a final total. Turn to the paragraph with
the same number. If you don’t know where the Ghoul-
crypts are, turn to 387.

170-171

170

The red gems set in the Strangler’s eye-sockets rise
from the collapsing pile of bones and whirr angrily in
mid-air. You have time to perform one swift action
here: you cannot eat a meal, but you may drink liqueur
or a Potion of sTAMINA, if you have these. Then the
gems fly at you and try to burrow their superheated
substance into your flesh! Test your Skill twice. Each
time you fail, one of the gems strikes you and you
must lose 4 sTAMINA points from the burning inflicted
on you! If you are still alive, you can now take the
lantern (turn to 286) or head for the mansion house
(turn to 46).

171
You need a skeleton key to open the complex lock on
this door. If you have one, you will know how many
notches are marked on it. Multiply this number by
seven, then turn to the paragraph with the same
number. If you don’t have this key, you can make
another choice. Will you open the tomb room of:

Turn to 113
Turn to 224
Turn to 292
Turn to 314

The first Knight?
The third Knight?
The fourth Knight?
The fifth Knight?

172-1753

172

You stand, shaking, over the body of the ghastly fiend
you have just destroyed. Passing through the remain-
ing rooms, you find one young monk who hasn't fled
or been killed; he is almost paralysed with shock, his
face pale and sweating. He manages to gesture to the
north but can say nothing. He must mean that the
beast came from that direction, so you rush back into
the main corridor. There are two northern doors there,
one to your left and the other to your right. Will you
now open the left-hand one (turn to 236) or the right-
hand one (turn to 225)?

173

The Doktor’s bedroom is a filthy and disorganized
shambles. Plates of half-eaten food and piles of dirty
clothes lie around everywhere. However, you do find
some bread and cheese which doesn’t seem to have
been gnawed (add 2 to your Provisions), 3 Gold
Pieces, a pair of brass flasks and a silver one. The silver
flask is labelled ‘Blackfire’ and has the number 130
etched on it (make a note of this). One brass flask is

174

labelled, ‘Doktor Verruckte’s Most Excellent Patent
Skill Restorative’ and the other simply ‘Essence’.
Neither is tightly sealed, and if you want to use them,
you must drink them now. If you want to drink the
Skill Restorative, turn to 241. If you prefer to drink the
contents of the other flask, turn to 395. If you would
rather not drink either, you return to the passage
outside this room to search elsewhere; turn to 7.

174
The door to your room is smashed down and two
burly, dark-haired thugs rush into the room! You
manage to grab your sword at the same time as a
heavy club strikes you in the ribs; deduct 2 points
from your STAMINA. Because you do not have your
armour on, you must subtract 1 from your Attack
Strength when fighting both these villains together.

SKILL STAMINA
First RUFFIAN 7 7
Second RUFFIAN 7 7

After you have slain one enemy, if you reduce the other
ruffian to 3 STAMINA points or less without killing him
outright, turn to 240. If you kill him, turn to 333.

175-176

175
You are standing in a short section of the passage,
which soon turns to the south. There is a door on the
north side of this passage before the turning. If you
want to open the door to the north, turn to 274. If
you want to make for the south passage, turn to 7. If
you want to return to the entrance hall, turn to 271.

176

You drink the potion and at once your head feels as if
it is on fire — and so does your stomach! You gasp for
air then suddenly belch up a huge gout of flame which
races across the chasm. This is not at all what Heydrich
was expecting. He is caught by the edge of the fiery
cloud, for your attack was not perfectly aimed, but he
loses 4 STAMINA points (make a note to adjust this
when you get to him). He is dazed and slow, and you
race across the rock bridge to attack him with your
sword! Turn to 138.

177-179

177

The Basilisk is upon you! The lizard’s length is twice
your height, and it has powerful clawed forefeet and
vicious fangs. If you have a Silver Mirror, you can
look away from the Basilisk and fight looking at its
reflection. You must subtract 2 from your Attack
Strength, but in every Attack Round you may roll one
dice. If you roll 1 or 6, the Basilisk stares into the
mirror and is turned to stone! If you do not have a
Silver Mirror, you must fight looking away from the
Basilisk to avoid its deadly, petrifying gaze, and hack
wildly and hope; subtract 2 from your Attack Strength.
The only good point is that, while this creature is
much larger and tougher than most of its kind, it does
not breathe poison as so many do.

HUGE BASILISK SKILL 8 SKILL 10

If you win, gain 1 LUCK point — few people fight such
monsters and survive! You cut off the head of the
brute and ascend once more to the surface. Turn to 133.

178
Your vial of acid destroys half the Skeletons, though
you will have to fight the rest. Turn to 104, and
subtract 5 from the sTAMINA of the Skeleton Horde in
that paragraph.

179
The corpse suddenly begins to strain and heaves on
the table, then it expels a cloud of stinking gas all over
you as you finish checking the contents of the tray.
Roll four dice and add 2 to the total rolled. If the new

oes

NJ

Ny)

‘

‘ \
‘}

~ites2

180-181

total exceeds your current STAMINA score, you now
have Lung Rot from breathing the toxic gas. This
disease will severely weaken you if you have to enter
wet, misty or foggy areas, and you should try to find
a cure for it as quickly as possible! Now, you should
explore somewhere you haven't been before. Will you:

Open the door at the end of the

corridor? Turn to 208
Explore the eastern side of the house? Turn to 193
Leave and be on your way? Turn to 300

180

The stone is cold, smooth and massive. What are you
going to do with it? If you want to pour some Oil of
Disenchantment on it, you know the number inscribed
on the vial; turn to the paragraph with that number. If
you want to try breaking a heart-shaped gem on it,
you know how many facets the gem has. Halve that
number, then turn to the paragraph with the same
number. Otherwise, all you can try to do is to strike
the stone with a magic sword, if you have one. If you
want to try this, turn to 342. If you don’t have a
magic sword, you guess that you cannot affect this
stone, and if you have neither a heart-shaped gem nor
the magical oil, you cannot achieve anything here; you
will have to backtrack to the left-hand passage (turn to
363) or return to the surface (turn to 145).

181
You find yourself in a room containing many ledgers,
scrolls and documents, scattered all over the place.

182-183

After a swift examination, you find some ledgers of books
bought and borrowed from the library of the monastery.
Looking at some recent entries, you find that both
Sewarth and Endrell have been borrowing books on
Mortvania and the undead, a fact which intrigues you.
You also turn up 2 Gold Pieces in a pouch tucked into a
desk drawer. Regain 1 tuck point. You guess that the
library is probably next door, so it should be the northern
door; if you want to go there, turn to 375. If you want to
search elsewhere in the east wing, turn to 265. If you
prefer to head forthe west wing of the monastery, turn to

182
You are standing at the end of the east passage,
looking south. There is a door on your left and
another one, facing you, at the end of the south
passage. You should explore somewhere you haven't
been before. Will you:

Open the door to your left?

Open the door facing you?

Explore somewhere else in the east
wing? Turn to 399

Leave and explore the west wing? Turn to 144

Turn to 368
Turn to 131

183
The bites of the Werewolf have inflicted Lycanthropy
on you and in due course you will become a Werewolf
yourself! You must get a cure for this. You remember
dimly that belladonna can cure this affliction. You
could search in the forest for this plant if you want to

184

(turn to 295) or you could head back to the main
trail and hope to find help in the next village you
come to (turn to 148). However, before you do
either, you notice that the Werewolf has a golden
amulet round its neck. Inspecting it, you see that it
is set with 30 small bloodstones. If you want to
take this, make a note of the number of gems:

184
Behind the locked door is a room containing fragile
glass jars that have been crafted in a very elegant but
disturbing manner. Each jar has a thick glass bulb at its
base, resting on a claw-shaped metal support; tapering
above it is a long, curved, fluted neck. Each jar is
stoppered with a cork, bound by a metal clasp and a
red wax seal. There must be several dozen of these
large vessels standing around against the wall of
the otherwise bare room. Most are empty, but a
few contain traces of grey ash or dust inside the
bulb. Five of them contain a blue-grey mist in addi-
tion to the fine layer of dust, and sparks like tiny
balls of lightning flicker in the mist. A palpable sense
of evil lingers in this room and the hairs on the
nape of your neck rise in alarm. You can leave here
and explore elsewhere (turn to 7) or you can smash
one of the containers to see what happens (turn to 247).

185-186

185

The walls are high and are topped by spear points.
Test your Skill; if you do not have any rope with you,
you must add 2 to the number rolled. If you are
successful, you manage to clamber over the wall; turn
to 299. If you fail, you get most of the way up the
wall then you fall back off it; lose 2 sTAMINA points.
You can continue Testing your Skill in this way until
you succeed, but if you get bored with this approach
you can try to force the main gates (turn to 147) or
look for another way in (turn to 213).

186

There isn’t much here for you to look through, but
underneath Endrell’s bed you find a locked wooden
chest. If you want to pry it open with your knife, turn
to 290. Otherwise, you leave this room. Will you now:

Return to your room and go back
to sleep? Turn to 326

Look for Marcus, if you haven't
spoken to him yet?

Explore the monastery further?

Turn to 356
Turn to 232

187-188

187

You descend some steps leading westwards into the
crypts. The passage turns north and, as you step
along it, you are ambushed from behind! A secret
door behind you has opened, and a pair of Ghouls
leap out. Claws rake your back; deduct 2 points
from your sTAMINA. You have to fight the Ghouls
together.

SKILL STAMINA
First GHOUL 8 7
Second GHOUL 8 7

If you are struck four times by the Ghouls, turn at
once to 84. If you win, turn to 215.

188

You find a stake and a mallet in the woodshed, which
you can take if you don’t already have some. Among
the clutter, you also find some rope and a rather
disgusting-looking meat pie; you can scrape the mould
off the pie and eat it if you are desperate for food. It
counts as one meal, but when you eat you must roll
four dice. If your roll is less than your Current
STAMINA, you regain STAMINA points as normal for
eating a meal (and you will also regain 1 LUCK point
for not getting food poisoning!). If the total is equal to
or greater than your Current sTAMINA, you will suffer
food poisoning and must deduct 2 points from your
STAMINA instead. Now you make for the back door.
Turn to 207.

189-190

189
You unsaddle your horse and request that he be fed
and watered, then you enter the coaching inn. You ask
the landlord if a man wearing a black coat has just
arrived and taken rooms. He looks at you quizzically
then says in a dull voice, ‘Ain’t no one come yer this
morning’.’ When you ask again, he repeats the same
line. Test your Spot Skill. If you are successful, turn to
230. If you fail, will you now:

Book into the inn? Turn to 289
Look for somewhere else to stay

and sleep? Turn to 323
Leave, but keep watch over the inn

from a distance? Tum to 394

190

The Corpse Golem is a very dangerous opponent
indeed. If it has an Attack Strength of 20 or more, it
will strike you even if you have the higher Attack
Strength (in such a case you both strike each other). If
it ever has an Attack Strength of 22, it hits you a
massive blow and you must lose 4 points from your
STAMINA!

CORPSE GOLEM SKILL 10 STAMINA 14

If you win, turn to 262.

191-192

191

As you haul yourself through the window of Harquar’s
bedroom, the first thing you see is the fat man lying,
motionless, on his bed. The tendrilled, jelly-like thing
has spread its slimy tentacles over his face and they
are suffocating him. Harquar initially had 9 sTAMINA
points, but he will have lost one every time you failed
when Testing your Skill during your climb. You must
destroy the Vampiric Jelly before it destroys Harquar.

VAMPIRIC JELLY SKILL 7 STAMINA 8

Work out Attack Strengths for yourself and the
monster as usual. Whenever it wins an Attack Round,
it does not harm you, but you fail to get in an
effective blow with your sword. Every Attack Round,
whether you have the higher Attack Strength or not,
Harquar loses 1 STAMINA point. If you defeat the
thing before Harquar’s sTAMINA is reduced to zero,
turn to 254. If you do not, turn to 392.

192

You can perform as many actions as you like before
entering one of the archways. Eating a meal (you can
force down only one now) takes two actions, but
anything else (drinking a potion or some herbal liqueur
or using a magical item, say) takes one action each.
Make a note of the number of actions you take. Now
you have to enter one archway or the other. Will it be
the right-hand archway (turn to 217) or the left-hand
one (turn to 284)?

1935-195

193
You rummage through a small bedroom and then
wander on into the kitchen. You can take food from
here (add 4 to your Provisions) and you must Test
your Luck. If you are Lucky, you find a pouch with 5
Gold Pieces in a desk drawer, but if you are Unlucky
you find nothing. You can now explore the west side
of the house if you haven't already done so (turn to
238) or you can leave the house (turn to 300).

194

Unfortunately, your exertions do not go unobserved.
Behind you, one of the Count’s lurking undead guards
comes racing to attack you. The grey flesh and rotting
stench of the thing, let alone the gnawed bone it was
feasting on, tells you that it is a Ghoul — but no
ordinary one. This brute is far stronger and more
dangerous than most of its kind.

HUGE GHOUL SKILL 8

If the Ghoul manages to strike you three times, turn at
once to 84. If you win, turn to 235.

STAMINA 11

195
The younger of the hags whispers conspiratorially to
you: ‘Shevala thinks I caused her sister to be turned to
stone. It isn’t true, but she’s going to kill me. Help me
slay her now, and you can have all the treasure she
has in her cave!’ If you agree to this, turn to 291. If
you refuse, then you can go back to Shevala and agree
to her plan (turn to 4) or try some other strategy (turn
to 72).

196~198

196

Your boots are really designed for hill climbing, but
they do provide some extra grip here. You fasten the
rope round the biggest rock you can find, then lower
yourself down the abyss, keeping as far away from the
weight of the water as you can. Your boots crunch on
the wet rock, and you are almost at the end of your
rope when you find yourself standing on a rock ledge.
Turn to 317.

197
As you head west past your own bedroom, the doors
to the dining hall are to your right and the main doors
to your left. Beyond them, there is another door to
your left; gently opening it, you find a silent, empty
bedroom. Further along there are three doors, two to
the north and one to the south. Will you open the first
door to the north (turn to 225), the second door to the
north (turn to 236) or the door to the south (turn to
381)?

198
More wearying days of travel lie ahead of you. You
can cadge food along the way, but you must supple-
ment the hospitality of local people with your own
food. You must eat four meals, but you can also buy
food to replenish your backpack (1 Gold Piece buys
enough for 2 meals here). Finally you arrive at the
outskirts of the village of Fendringham. Mortus Man-
sion is only an hour's walk from here, but it is now
late afternoon. If you want to stay at a tavern over-
night, this will cost you 1 Gold Piece: if you have

i Lee. —.....__...________..______

199-200

money and are prepared to pay, turn to 67. If you
want to press on towards the mansion turn to 49.

199

It takes you two Attack Rounds to get near him, and
the old man is a lot swifter and nimbler than he looks.
Two metal spheres project from the side of the lectern
at which he is perched and they fire a stream of
barbed bronze bolts at you. Roll two dice; the total is
the number of sTAMINA points you must lose through
being speared by this endless volley of bolts. You
wonder now whether your strategy was a good one.
You can run away if you wish. If you do, you will be
hit by more bolts (roll one dice and lose that many
STAMINA points). If you survive, turn to 7 to explore
elsewhere. If you want to continue fighting him, turn
to 278.

200
The Count stares at you in fear and rushes past you,
through the open door and away to the north. His
passage is so swift that you can hardly keep up with
him. He reaches the glowing archway and races
straight into it. The surface of the blue magical barrier
ripples, as if someone had dropped a stone into a
pond, after he has passed through it. Sparks of magical
fire roar round the edges of the barrier. You have a
split second to decide; if you want to follow him, jump
through NOW! Turn to 359. Otherwise, you back
away. You can open the other door to the south, if
you haven't done so already (turn to g7), or you can
leave the crypts and return to the entrance hall of

:

201-202

Mortus Mansion to get your bearings and find some-
where else to search (turn to 271).

201
You strike at the older crone with your sword. If you
do not have a magic sword, you cannot harm her and
she will destroy you. Otherwise, fight on!

SHEVALA

In the first two Attack Rounds, Shevala will attack by
using spells: she fires small bolts of lightning into your
body. If she has the higher Attack Strength, you must
lose 4 STAMINA points from her attack. If you have
the higher Attack Strength, you will strike her and her
spell will be ruined. From the third Attack Round
onwards, she fights with a poisoned dagger. If she
strikes you, roll one dice. If you roll 4 or higher, you
must lose 3 STAMINA points because of the venom on
her blade. If you win, you can take 3 Gold Pieces from
the witch’s body. You decide to confront the other
witch; turn to 277.

SKILL 9 STAMINA i1

202
A few paces in front of you is a plain wooden door,
where the passage bends round to the right. You peer
further along the passage and can see two more doors,
one to your left, half-way down the passage, and one
to your right at the very end. The first of these doors
is also plain, while the third one — at the end of the
passage — has a shield design on it showing a broken
thorn dripping blood against a white background.
Which door will you open?

Co eesi—i—i‘“‘“‘<ia

203-204
The door in front of you? Turn to 28
The door half-way down the
passage? Turn to 393
The door with the shield design at
the end of the passage? Turn to 11

203

You follow the road leading eastwards away from the
lakeside settlement. You spend a long time walking:
you must eat two meals and you lose 2 Blood Points.
If you have Bloodbane, you must deduct 1 point from
both your Initial and Current sTAMINA scores. You
stop at a coaching inn and ask after the black coach.
People talk to you with strange, glazed expressions
and they deny they have seen anything of the sort.
Something in their manner makes you suspicious, and
when they deny with particular vehemence that the
coach continued eastwards you are sure you are on
the right track after all! Turn to 279.

204

The Cave Wisp is a very difficult opponent. It attacks
you by firing sprays of sparks and, while you only
need two strikes to destroy it, it is extremely hard to
hit!

CAVE WISP SKILL 11 STAMINA 4

If you win, you press ahead and come to the waterfall
at the end of the cavern. Water tumbles down from a
stream or lake far above and pours down over rock
ledges and down a jagged chasm which clearly de-
scends some way. As far as you can see, this is the

205

only route down to the realms below the mines, so
you must descend here. The rocks are very slippery
and ordinary climbing will be very difficult. If you
have some climbing boots and rope, turn to 196. If
you have a mystery potion, it may help you here — it
might even make you fly (and drift down safely). If
you want to use it here, you know how many scratches
there are on the glass vial. Multiply that number by
seven and turn to the paragraph with the same number.
If you decide just to dive in and hope for the best,
turn to 263.

205

‘I feel I should give them to Sewarth in person,’ you
say. ‘They must be important if the man carrying them
was killed because of them.’

Endrell raises his eyebrows but makes no objection.
‘Very well, then, you must wait until Sewarth returns,’
he says grudgingly. ‘We can offer you such hospitality
as we possess.’ You are shown to a plain bedroom
with a hard pallet bed and a couple of blankets which
seem to have been woven from the roughest wool in
all Titan. After some bread, a bowl of thin soup and a
mug of water, you pull the blankets over you and
settle down to sleep. Turn to 74.

206-207

206
Though the creature you pursued into these depths is
a witch, the cavern you now enter looks more like

ra

the domain of a necromancer. The bodies of twenty,
perhaps more, small and stunted, Dwarf-like creatures

are entombed here in various stages of decay. Some /

are little more than piles of bones, but others still have
rotting flesh clinging to their skeletons. They are all
standing or lying in stone coffins, which are strewn
round the chamber as if thrown haphazardly by the
hand of some unimaginably large giant; but in the
very middle of the cavern stands a mottled brown
monolith, a smooth stone with veins of yellow and
rust. Your hair stands on end; the stone is giving off a
sensation of evil, decay and wrongness that you can

feel.

What will you do? If you do not want to enter here,
you can backtrack to the left-hand branch, if you
haven't explored it before (turn to 363), or make for
the surface (turn to 145). If you decide to enter, will
you examine the tombs (turn to 42) or the stone (turn
to 180)?

207

You push open the back door and find yourself in a
long, narrow hallway. You have entered from the
north, and there are doors to the east, the west and
the south. The southern door must be the front door,
so there is little point in opening that. Will you open
the east door (turn to 349) or the west door (turn to

144)?

a
208

208

The Count clearly doesn’t spend all his time sleeping
in coffins, you discover, as you force the lock on a
bedroom door. The sumptuous silks and cottons of his
bedcovers are valuable but far too heavy to carry.
However, you can take the gold tassels on the four-
poster bed and sell them for 5 Gold Pieces in a market!
Also there is a flask of the Count’s favourite herbal
brandy here. This is a fine restorative — you can drink
it at any time (except during a combat) and it will
restore 4 lost sTAMINA points. Gain 1 LUCK point.
However, there are no clues to the Vampire’s where-
abouts, and the bed certainly does not seem to have
been slept in for some time. You should now explore
somewhere you haven't been before. Will you:

Open the door in the corridor leading

westwards? Turn to 35
Explore the eastern side of the
house? Turn to 193

Leave and head on your way? Turn to 300

209-211

209
The Count’s bloodshot eyes glow with infernal power!
His hypnotic powers are affecting your mind. You are
slowed, weakened; you must subtract 1 from your
Attack Strength when fighting him. Turn to 258.

210

You open the door to a smelly servant's room. Unfortu-
nately the smelly — and powerfully built — servant is in
it. His leather armour is well padded and his sword
looks extremely sharp. Igor growls angrily at your
intrusion and attacks at once!

IGOR SKILL 9 STAMINA 14

If Igor has an Attack Strength of 20 or better when he
wins an Attack Round, you must lose 3 STAMINA
points as a result of his blow — he is extremely strong.
If you win, turn to 78.

211
Roll two dice and add the numbers rolled. If the total
is less than or equal to your FAITH score, turn to 312.
If the total is greater than your FAITH score, turn to
156.

212-214

212
When they arrive, you are searched by the Watch,
who discover the gold. They aren’t interested in the
papers, but they throw you in jail for a week — and
they take every last Gold Piece you have as a fine for
burglary! Lose 10 Blood Points. If you have Bloodbane,
you will die during this imprisonment from the effects
of the disease and your adventure ends here. If you
are still alive, you are ridden out of town along the
north-eastern road. Turn to 198.

213

On the east side of the building, you come upon a
hole in the wall. It is ragged and uneven, and through
the hole you can see the grey stone of the mansion
house itself. You squat down and wriggle through the
hole. Unfortunately it is a trap, deliberately placed
here to snare the unwary. When you are almost
through, a guillotine-like blade drops from the far side
of the wall above the hole.

Your adventure ends here!

214
Bravely — but foolishly — you race to the coach and
strike out at the figure through the door of the coach
as he closes in. You strike him, but without a magical
weapon you cannot harm him. He grabs hold of the
blade in his hands without even cutting himself, and
brings it down, pommel first, in a mighty blow on
your skull. Deduct 3 points from your sTAMINA. You
are too stunned and concussed even to get a good
look at him, but you remember his mocking laughter

215-216

as he slams the coach door. Lose 1 tuck point, but
gain 1 FAITH point for your bravery! Turn to 371.

215

The chamber of the Ghouls is devoid of anything of
interest or value. You continue northwards along the
passage until it turns to the west again. In the distance
it ends at a door, and there is a northern side-turning
to another door. If you want to open the door to the
north, turn to 288. If you want to open the door to
the west, turn to 347.

216

What is the merchant's name? If you know it, convert
the letters of his name into numbers using the code
A=1,B=2,C=3...Z = 26. Add together the
numbers corresponding to the letters in his name, then
double the total. Turn to the paragraph with this
number. If you don’t know his name, return to 148
and make another choice.

217-220

217
Alas! The cunning Count only appeared to enter the
darkness here. He was actually teleported elsewhere —
and you have walked into an utterly destructive magi-
cal trap in the darkness. Your body is turned to a pile
of fine ash. You were so close to glory, but your
adventure has to end here!

218

Though several telescopes have been mounted here,
the dome itself has been fashioned as an observatory,
for as you stare through the glass you can see the
stars of the night sky clearly magnified. Marvelling at
this, you notice a dark, distinctly bat-like shape glide
down from the east and swoop close to the ground by
the west wing of the monastery. As it descends into
darkness, you cannot make out exactly where it went.
If you want to go to the west wing of the monastery
in order to follow its progress, turn to 197. If you
want to search the library, not having done so before,
turn to 281. If you want to search elsewhere in the
east wing, turn to 265.

219
If you have Latent Vampirism or Lycanthropy, turn to
259. If you have neither of these afflictions, turn to
198.

220
You have entered the witch’s bedchamber. Lice-infested
and rotting hay is spread around in what looks more
like a nest than a bed. But you also find treasure:

220

jewellery and trinkets worth 15 Gold Pieces. And you
find a black wooden casket, inscribed with runes and
symbols and clasped with fastenings of gold. Half
afraid, you open it. Inside, nestling in a bed of fine red
silk, is a heart-shaped gem within which a baleful fire
seems to burn and pulse like the rhythm of a heartbeat.
The crystal is very intricate; it has go facets (make a
note of this). If you want to destroy this wretched
thing, you soon find out that nothing seems to harm
it; trying to smash it is useless. You will have to find
out how to destroy it somehow. But, for now, you
know that this thing is associated with the Vampire
you seek. Gain 5 Blood Points! You also know that
you must leave swiftly. If you want to make for the
mansion house, not having been there before, turn
to 198. If there is any other place you would like to
visit, you know the name of that place. Change the
letters of its name into numbers, using the code A = 1,
B = 2 and so on. Add together the numbers corre-
sponding to the letters to arrive at a total, add five to
that new number, and turn to the paragraph with the
same number. If you do not know the name of this
placé, and you have already been to the mansion, then
you are lost! You will not be able to find Heydrich
before his terrible plan comes to fruition. Your adven-
cure ends in failure.

as =— ee
221-222

221

A skeletal hand reaches round the doorway with
amazing speed and unerring accuracy and grips your
throat with steely-hard claws. As you struggle to free
yourself, the glow in the eyes of this black-cloaked
skeleton grows brighter and brighter! This horror with
glowing red eye-sockets is unlike anything you have
met before. Every Attack Round it strangles you and
you must lose 2 STAMINA points automatically. How-
ever, you must work out Attack Strengths as normal.
If you have the higher Attack Strength, you can
damage the Skeletal Strangler. If you have the lower
Attack Strength, your blow is ineffective.

SKELETAL STRANGLER SKILL 8 STAMINA7

If you win, turn at once to 170.

222

The howls of the Demon Hound are still echoing in
your ears as you slam the door shut behind you, your
heart thumping wildly in your chest. Then the monster
stops and all is quiet for a brief moment, until you
hear the sound of rapid footsteps coming along the
passage. The sound of a great weight, or of a bolt
being rammed home, can be heard, as can the laughter
of one of the Count’s servants. Trying to force the
door open, you cannot. You are sealed in the Ghoul-
crypts now, and you do not have the mighty sword
which would have given you a chance of victory
against Heydrich. If you do not have a magic sword,
your quest is hopeless, for now you cannot find one,
and without one the Count cannot be harmed — your

223-226

adventure ends here. Even with a magic sword your
chances are slim indeed — but there is no turning back!
Turn to 71.

223
As you inch forward, the mist grows thicker and
yellower. The air is clammy and almost stifling. If you
have Lung Rot, you lose 4 sTAMINA points through
breathing this polluted air. If your FAITH score is 7 or
higher, turn to 39. If your FAITH score is 6 or less, turn
to 148.

224
This tomb room is empty, save for the fine stone
tomb of the long-dead knight within it. You gain
nothing by your choice. The knight’s ghost ushers you
out of the tomb, and you make for the door half-way
along the passage beyond the tombs, and open it.
Turn to 393.

225
You force your way through the door and find yourself
in the kitchens. There is an open trapdoor in the floor
here, and the stench of decay drifts upwards from
below. You light your lantern and set off down the
stone steps towards the corridor you can see below
you. If you have slain a monk in the monastery, turn
to 103. If you have not done so, turn to 293.

226
You must pay 1 Gold Piece for food and board. If you
can't (or won't) pay, you must sleep rough. You must

227

eat a meal, and if you have Lung Rot you will lose 2
STAMINA points for staying out on such a wet, foggy
night.

In the morning, you ask about the location of Crab
Peak. The local people, looking very unhappy, tell you
that the place is cursed and evil. Long ago in the past,
two mighty wizards fought a duel to the death there;
the curses uttered with their dying breaths as they
slew each other turned the place into one of magic,
evil and treachery. No one goes there now, not even
the patrols which normally guard the southern border
of the Great Wall to protect the local people from
Lendleland prowlers. However, they tell you that it is
a day’s hard walk to the north-east. Before you set off,
you can if you like buy some Provisions; 1 Gold Piece
will buy you enough for 3 meals. Turn to 151.

227
What are you going to say? Will you ask about:

Getting help for your afflictions, if

you have any? Turn to 332
The Count and his whereabouts? Turn to 38
The man’s experiments? Turn to 24

rn
—— —
228-230

228
You are cured of Bloodbane. You may restore your
Initial (but not your Current!) stTAMINA to its original
value. Regain 1 Luck point, and turn to 268.

229
The Vampyre retreats away from you fearfully! She
must be one of the Count’s more cowardly servants.
You now have a choice: you can simply retreat from
here if you do not wish to fight her, closing the door
and heading back to the main passage; turn to 202. If
you choose to attack her — and you cannot reach the
coffin without doing so — you can get in an early
strike so that she loses 2 STAMINA points. Then you
will have to fight; turn to 251.

Ke

—

‘
~~

230
The landlord isn’t speaking normally. You wonder
whether the Vampire has affected his mind — they
have the power to hypnotize people, after all! Will
you now:

Book into the inn?

Look for somewhere else to stay
and sleep? Turn to 323

Leave but keep watch over the inn
from a distance?

Turn to 289

Turn to 394

a

231-232

231

The Count has prepared a protection against Blackfire;
he knows its magical secrets and has used magic to
conjure a protective barrier against your attack. The
flames flicker harmlessly round him. His perfectly white
teeth are bared, first in a feral snarl, then in a grin of
triumph. He hurls a volley of magical darts at you;
they streak across the chasm and burn their way into
your flesh. Deduct 3 points from your. sTAMINA. The
pain jolts you into action and you rush at him; turn to
273.

232

You gaze up and down the passages briefly to get
your bearings. From outside your bedroom door, pas-
sages lead east and west. Eastwards are the rooms of
the Elder monks and some other chambers you don’t
know about. To the west, the doors to the dining hall
face the main doors, and further along there are more
doors — again, you do not know where these may lead
to. If you want to explore to the east, turn to 265. If
you want to head westwards, turn to 197.

233-234

233

Alas for you! The Count has brought his terrible
Mortvanian Demon Steed with him from his native
land, and this evil black brute breathes fiery, choking
smoke over you as it materializes behind you when
you set foot in the stables. You have to fight for your
life. If you have Lung Rot, you must lose 3 STAMINA
points from the creature’s reeking breath. Whether
you have that affliction or not, you have to subtract 2
from your Attack Strength because of the obscuring,
weakening effect of the red-eyed monster's breath.

DEMON STEED SKILL 8 STAMINA 10

If you win, you reel back into the main coach-house.
You should now investigate where you haven't been
before. Will you:

Explore the coach? Turn to 364
Open the single door? Turn to 22
Leave and make for the main
mansion house? Turn to 46
234

At the far end of a rocky cave with a fissure running
across the middle of its floor Carollar is standing,
stirring a steaming cauldron and screaming an incanta-
tion. As soon as she sees you, she raises her hands and
the contents of the cauldron crackle and spark. Flares
of fiery smoke leap up from it, and to your horror you
can see the claws of some kind of monster beginning
to drag themselves out of the boiling fluids! If you
have a longbow, you can fire arrows at the witch; turn

\j

eee ee

235

to 305. If you have some acid and want to throw it at
her, turn to 398. Alternatively, you can leap the fissure
and attack her with your sword (turn to 31).

235
You step through the open doorway into a spacious,
sumptuously decorated room. Wooden stairs on the
eastern wall lead up, and heavy black velvet drapes
line the walls. What catches your attention, though, is
the young man, gagged and trussed, writhing in a
chair at the foot of the stairs. His simple grey robes
have the rune of Good inscribed over his heart. He
groans as you enter and wriggles furiously. Obviously
he is trying to tell you something. Is this a trap, you
wonder. You can’t reach the stairs without passing
close by him. Will you go and help him (turn to
256), back out and explore elsewhere in the east
wing (turn to 399), or make for the west wing (turn to

144)?

236-237

236

You are in a chapel, with prayer mats and small idols
of the gods of Titan, lit by flickering candles. If you
want to stay here awhile, to pray for guidance or look
for help or clues, turn to 252. Otherwise, you can
leave and try the south door if you haven't already
done so (turn to 381) or the north door further to the
east (turn to 225).

237
At last you have found Count Reiner Heydrich himself!
But getting close to him will be another matter since
he is standing far away from you, in a huge chamber
with a central fissure running across it. A narrow rock
bridge crosses it, but this route is guarded by a
monstrous, green-skinned, Ghoul-like thing wearing an
iron mask, which hides all its face, and steel gauntlets
that drip poison and hissing acid. The Count himself is
wearing his red-lined, black silk cloak, and his hands are

~~ clutching an amulet round his neck. Thin waving lines —

some form of magic or power — are flowing into his
body; they originate in a set of portraits round the
walls, pictures of the Vampire Elders in the tombs you
have just passed. Behind the Count are two archways,
but for all that you can see, they contain only inky
blackness. The Count lifts his hands in triumph, but he
gestures for his Ghoul-guardian to attack rather than
attacking you himself. You wonder why that may be...
You have choices to make here. If you want to attack
the Count’s bizarre, Ghoul-like thing, turn to 330. If you
want to try to jump across the chasm (you cannot get to
the bridge without killing the Ghoul), turn to 280.

238-239

238

Passing through a bare, stinking chamber where the
Zombies came from, you open a door into a corridor.
There are doors too on the western side of this
passage and at the far end. Test your Spot Skill. If you
are successful, turn to 287. If you are unsuccessful, will
you open the western door (turn to 35) or the door at
the end of the corridor (turn to 208)?

239

You find the witch’s treasure trove. The avaricious
crone must have slain many travellers on the borders
of her lands, and she has hidden her ill-gotten gains
here. You find trinkets, coins and knick-knacks worth a
total of 20 Gold Pieces. There are also two excellent
sealed and preserved cheeses which you can take for
food (add 3 to your Provisions). However, you find no
magic, which is disappointing. You guess that any
magic the crone had must be hidden behind that magical
barrier in her lair. If you want to return there and risk
going through the archway, turn to 264. Alternatively,
you can explore the cave at the very end of the passage,
if you haven't done so before (tum to 206), or you can
leave and head for the surface (turn to 145).

240-241

. 240
‘Don't kill me!’ the miserable cowardly thug snivels.
He sinks to his knees and clutches you round the legs,
sobbing. If you decide to spare him, turn to 282. If
you want to kill him, you can do so easily, since he
has dropped his weapon; turn to 333.

241
If you have lost any skiLt points during this adventure,
for whatever reason, they are all fully restored! Unfortu-
nately, there is a side-effect to drinking this potion: it
was concocted using the essences of Wraiths and
Spectres, and if you meet an undead of either type,
you must subtract 1 from your Attack Strength when
fighting them (make a note of this on your Adventure
Sheet). Now you can drink the Essence, if you haven't
already done so and you wish to try it (turn to 395),
or you can leave and search elsewhere in the passage
outside the Doktor’s laboratory (turn to 7).

i es

242-244

242
The Werewolf has a golden amulet round its neck set
with 30 small bloodstones. If you want to take this,
make a note of the number of gems it has. Now, you
continue through the woods and return to the main
trail. Turn to 148.

243
For the first three Attack Rounds of your coming fight
against the Count, you must roll two dice and add the
numbers together. If this total is ever lower than your
FAITH score, the Vampire hypnotizes you and you
must submit to his will, so ending your adventure!
Now turn to 365.

244
You take Igor’s sword; this is a magic sword, and you
may add 1 to your Attack Strength when using it, so
gain 1 LUCK point as well. Igor has a gold ring set
with seven small moonstones. This is worth 10 Gold
Pieces, and you should also make a note of the
number of gems in the ring. You make a hurried

244,

search of the room and find a locked trunk under the
bed; it contains 6 Gold Pieces and a book. The book is
entitled, simply, ‘Sewarth’s Codex’, and it has 155
pages (make a note of this number). You decide to
look at this later, because first you have to worry
about a coffin with a Vampire in it. The man lying
there is pale-faced, with long, dark hair tapering to a
widow's peak above his dark eyebrows. Though he
does not move, his bloodshot eyes are open and a
cruel smile is fixed on his darkly handsome face. His
hands are clasped over his chest, his long fingernails
immaculately manicured.

Grasping your sword, you drive it into his chest. A
little blood seeps from the wound, but as you withdraw
the blade the stains disappear! The grin of the Vampire
seems even wider now. You pull back the curtains to
let the early morning sunlight into the room, but even
as the light reaches his body he smiles again. Finally,
in desperation, you cut off his head with your sword —
and, by its own volition, the grinning head moves
slowly back to the body and attaches itself once more!
The Vampire is truly invulnerable. However, you can
at least destroy his coffin here, and you have the
Codex; gain 4 Blood Points! So what will you do
now? Will you:

Try to rouse people in the inn to do
something about the Vampire?
Go back to your room and read the

Codex?
Go back to your room and sleep?

Turn to 261

Turn to 306
Turn to 379

245-246

245
The old women continue their furious arguing for some
time, then walk away from one another. The older and
uglier of the two walks up to a large rock and lays her
hands on it. The boulder simply rolls to one side,
revealing a passage which leads down into the subterra-
nean gloom. She enters, and the rock rolls back above
the entry point. The younger one hobbles to Crab Peak
itself and goes into a tiny cave entrance in the side of the
great rock. If you want to follow the older crone, turn to
329. If you want to follow the younger one, turn to 277.

246
You leave the Golden Goose and hang about outside;
minutes later, the fat sage emerges and waddles off
towards Orchead Square. He unlocks his front door
and, if you were thinking of forcing an entry, you
change your mind when you see the size of the
enormous bodyguard lurking in the hallway. Reason
tells you you should go back to an inn to get some
rest and food but, for no good reason you can think
of, you stay here for a few minutes longer. Outside an
upstairs window of the house, where a light inside
shows that someone has just lit a lamp, a misty haze

247

begins to form. As you peer at it, the mist takes the
shape of a bizarre, tendrilled creature which strikes the
window with a disgusting ‘plop’. The horror simply
dissolves the glass away and flaps into the room
beyond. Will you:

Climb up the wall to get to the
upstairs room?

Hammer on the front door of the
house? Turn to 37

Leave, and come back tomorrow to

Turn to 341

see what has happened? Turn to 369
Decide you don't like this at all and

leave Farleigh, heading north-

eastwards? Turn to 198
Leave Farleigh for another area

altogether? Turn to 304

247
Which type of jar will you smash? Will you break:

An empty jar? Turn to 269
One containing dust or ash only? Turn to 301
One with mist and sparks inside it? Turn to 96

248-249

. 248
Using your shield to try to protect your head against
the rain of blows, out of the corner of your eye you
see something bizarre happening on the dining table.
One of the tureens has tipped over and a shapeless
pile of rotting innards is emptying itself on to the
table! This disgusting remnant is jerking about with
the same rhythm as that of the knives, plates and
servers that are assaulting you! As you look at it, the
‘creature’ is beginning to take a Zombie-like shape.
You attack it with your sword.

PROTO-ZOMBIE SKILL 7 STAMINA 5

Each Attack Round you have to fight this thing, you
must lose 1 STAMINA point automatically through being
assailed. Furthermore, the mass of flesh goes on growing
until you destroy it. The Proto-Zombie gains 1 STAMINA
point each Attack Round until you reduce its
STAMINA to zero or below. It does not attack you
itself; if you lose an Attack Round to it, you fail to
strike it. If you manage to defeat this peculiar oppo-
nent, you can either open the door to the east and
enter the kitchens (turn to 129) or return to the
main passage outside (turn to 399).

249
You have no time to lose. With a wave of his hand,
Siegfried gives you the blessings of the gods and
returns you to your own world. You are standing
outside Mortus Mansion, and your final goal lies to
the north-west. Turn to 169.

eel,

250-252

250
You don’t really have much in the way of grounds for
suspicion, but you say you are surprised not to have
been told where Sewarth is, or exactly how long he
will be away. Marcus scratches his brow with worry.
‘He left without telling anyone why,’ he says. Question-
ing him, you learn that it was Endrell who told Marcus
about the departure of the other Elders; they didn’t tell
him themselves. Marcus is clearly worried: You decide
that you don’t want to confront Endrell with this, so
you pump Marcus for more information. All he has
himself are misgivings, but he does say that he has
noticed that Endrell is often not in his bedroom at
nights. You have your own suspicions about Endrell
now, so you decide to do some exploring in the
monastery. Turn to 232.

251
The Vampyre attacks with her long fangs and razor-
sharp nails!

VAMPYRE SKILL 9 STAMINA 10

If the Vampyre has an Attack Strength of 21 in any
Attack Round, make a note of this paragraph number
then turn to 95. If you win, turn to 338.

252
Neither searching nor beseeching the gods of Titan
gets you anywhere. You just waste time; lose 1 Blood
Point. As you leave, if you have slain a monk here,
turn to 331. If your hands are clean, turn to 381.

253-254

. 253

Opening the back door of the mansion house, you see
a gravel courtyard outside. There is a wooden hut of
some kind near by, but you also think you can hear
low growls and a mournful howl coming out of the
mists that surround you. If you want to go out and
explore, turn to 136. If you think better of it, you can
open the eastern door in the hallway (turn to 349) or
the western door (turn to 144).

254

You summon Harquar’s dim-witted bodyguard and
send him to fetch a healer; after swallowing some
herbal preparations, Harquar feels much better. “You
have saved my life,’ he says rather uncertainly. He’s
obviously still in shock. You decide to come right out
and tell him your whole story: that you are pursuing a
Vampire, your meeting with Henrik, and all that has
happened to you.

Harquar looks first astounded, then grim. ‘So Henrik
has been murdered, and the Halls of the Stars de-
stroyed,’ he muses. ‘I may be the only one left. Henrik
had followed Heydrich from Allansia to the Old
World, you know. He knew Sewarth from many years
ago and begged his help in tracking down Heydrich’s
one weakness. In his turn, Sewarth asked me to keep a
watch on the mansion house Heydrich had bought
here. It’s a bad place. The local people have always
kept well away. Many years ago, a nobleman went
mad there and slew his whole family so the place is
full of ghosts, vengeful things. Everyone was very

al
255

surprised when an unknown count from another land
bought it. But it would make an excellent cover for
such an evil man: anything untoward happening in the
area would be put down to the old ghosts, not to him.
I found it difficult to recruit any reliable scouts and
spies in the area, frankly, and I’ve not been able to
keep track of the Count’s movements.’ You are disap-
pointed by this news. Turn to 315.

, 255
The man flicks through the pages of the Codex,
nodding his head now and again and muttering, ‘Hmm.’
At last he tells you that the Codex records in a
complex code the location in the Ghoulcrypts of a
powerful magical sword which you should try to find.
‘The sword of the fifth Knight of the Thorn,’ he says.
‘They were a body of dedicated warriors who sought,
many long years ago, to root out the undead in the
Crypts. They slew many but failed in their final goal.
However, they did seal the Crypts — but Heydrich has
found entry, and you will have to follow him. The
sword is vital to you; you can hardly hope to overcome
him without it.’

The man gets up slowly and walks over to a cupboard,
from which he extracts a silver flask. He tells you that
this contains a special preparation: an antidote to the
paralysing effect of Ghoul’s claws. You can drink this
at any time, except during combat, and if you would
normally be paralysed (and killed) by a Ghoul in either
of your two following combats with any type of
Ghoul, you can ignore the paralysis; it does not affect

256-258

you. You thank him for his gift and listen carefully to
his instructions on how to reach the Bluestone mines.
‘One final thing,’ he says. “You might consider talking
to old Grundy. He was the foreman in the mines for
many years, before they were abandoned and the
undead began to stalk the lower depths once more. He
knows the many hazards of the mines.’ If you want to
find the old miner and talk to him, turn to 32. If you
prefer to set off for the mines immediately, turn to

134.

256
Test your Spot Skill. If you are successful, turn to 336. If
you fail, turn to 389.

257
‘Most interesting,’ Endrell murmurs, scanning the
papers briefly, then studying some of them more
carefully. ‘I think you should wait for Sewarth to
return. He will want to talk to you about this man
Henrik, I am sure. Not that any of this means much to
me, I’m afraid.’

‘May IT look at those?’ the younger man asks. Endrell
shakes his head and hands the papers back to you,
telling you to hold on to them until Sewarth returns.
Test your Spot Skill. If you are successful, turn to 302. If
you fail, turn to 33.

258
The Count strikes at you with powerful fists, and he
will also try to bite you on the throat! If you do not
259-260

have a magic sword, you cannot harm him, and you
will die here; your adventure is over. If he strikes you
with an Attack Strength of 23, he kills you outright!
Finally, you can adjust his staMINA score as follows:
divide your Blood Points score by five (rounding
fractions up) to get a number. Subtract that number
from his stAMINA given below.

REINER HEYDRICH SKILL 11 STAMINA 15

If you reduce the Count’s stAMINA to 4 points or
below, turn to 200.

259

Your malady is getting worse! Lose 2 Blood Points,
and you must subtract 1 point from your sKILL and 1
point from both your Initial and Current sTAMINA.
You desperately need to find help quickly. If you want
to make for Mortus Mansion and look for help either
there or on the way, turn to 198. If you want to
search for a healer in these remote parts of Analand,
turn to 3.

260
Cracks appear along the length of the stone and it
seems to be splitting from top to bottom even while

261

you look at it. A dreadful shriek of dismay and rage
fills the cavern, and the stone explodes. Test your Skill.
If you are successful, you manage to duck away from
the worst of the hail of stone and rock fragments; lose
3 STAMINA points but gain 1 Luck point. If you fail,
you get hammered by an avalanche of exploding
stone and rock. Lose 8 sTAMINA points. If you are still
alive, you pick yourself up dazed, and look around.
The bodies have crumbled to dust. The ancient magical
blight holding the souls imprisoned here has been
destroyed, and above you the cursed and barren
ground will regain its natural fertility. Gain 1 FAITH
point! Now you should explore the left-hand passage
behind you, if you have not already done so (turn to
363), or return to the surface (turn to 145).

261

Your frantic appeals for help and your warnings are
simply ignored by everyone. They look at you as if
you were mad and go out of their way to avoid you.
Clearly Heydrich has affected everyone’s mind here.
Frustrated and angry, you can either settle down to
tread the book you have found (turn to 306) or get
some rest (turn to 379).

262-263

. 262

You stand over the remains of the gruesome monster
in the middle of a growing throng of excited villagers.
Pushing through them is a man with a hard-lined face,
short black hair, steely grey eyes and plain brown
robes. He waves people out of his way with a haw-
thorn stick, and they part to let him through. He takes
you by the arm and stares you in the eyes with an
unflinching gaze. ‘Come and eat,’ he says simply. “You
were fortunate to survive such a hunter. Fortunate,
and brave.’

You go with the long-striding man to an austere
house where a silent servant brings bowls of hot soup,
cheese, fruit and fresh-baked bread. “You are pursuing
the Count, the man says in a matter-of-fact way. ‘1
have sensed his flight here. It will not be long before
he brings his plans to fruition.’ Then he coughs hor-
ribly, and covers his mouth with a handkerchief. You
tealize that, despite initial appearances, he is very ill.
When he has recovered, he stares at you again in his
disturbing way; there is something very sinister about
him, of that there can be no doubt. If you want to
trust him and go on talking with him, turn to 357. If
you don’t care for his company, you can leave and
begin your search for the Ghoulcrypts alone; turn to
319.

we

N
\

—_—

Z
i?

A
4
4
Z
Z
4
n
4

WS

NY

a hae “

263
Test your Skill. If you are successful, you touch a rock
ledge on your way down and grab on to it. However,
your arms are severely strained by the weight of

ee

264-265

foam-flecked water roaring down on top of your
body; deduct 2 points from your sTAMINA and turn to
317. If you fail, your body is dashed to pieces on
jagged rocks far, far below. Your adventure ends here.

If you want to utter any magical words the crone told
you, turn to 325. If you want to read through any
papers or books you have for some clues, this will take
time; turn to 352 if you decide to do this. If you prefer
just to step straight through the magical barrier, turn
to 18.

265

In the east wing of the monastery there are several
doors. There is one to the north, which must lead into
a sizeable room, judging by distances. To the south,
there are two pairs of doors facing each other, to the
east and west. You know the first door to the west is
Endrell’s room, and you guess that the one facing it
must be Marcus’s room. The others you do not know
about. Finally, there is a door to the south. You should
explore somewhere you have not visited before. Will
you open:

266-267

The door to the north?

The door to Marcus's room, if you
haven't spoken with him already? Tum to 356

The second door to the west? Turn to 107

The second door to the east? Turn to 181

The door to the south? Turn to 135

Turn to 375

266

You have almost reached the far door when the fast-
striding hound finally catches up with you. With a
great leap, the thing hurls itself at your back and its
great paws hammer against your spine; deduct 2
points from your STAMINA. Test your Skill, adding 2 to
the total rolled. If you are successful, you manage to
throw the ghastly thing aside and dive through the
door, slamming it shut behind you; turn to 11. If you
fail, you are forced to fight; turn to 322.

267
You have a mighty battle on your hands. If you do
not have a magic sword, you cannot harm the witches
and your adventure ends here. If you do have a magic
sword, you must fight the witches together. In the
268

first two Attack Rounds, Shevala will attack you with
a poisoned dagger while Carrolar casts spells at you,
firing small bolts of lightning into your body. You
must lose 4 STAMINA points from each of these spell
attacks. Thereafter, both will fight with their daggers.
If you are struck by a dagger, roll one dice. If you roll
4 or higher, you must lose 3 sTAMINA points from the
strike because of the poison.

SKILL STAMINA
SHEVALA (First Witch) 9 11
CAROLLAR (Second Witch) 10 10

If you win, turn to 297.

268

‘I have many interests,’ your host says warily. ‘Especi-
ally philosophy and the life of the soul after death.
This in particular intrigues me,’ he adds as if giving a
lecture. Then he lunges forward towards you, almost
rising out of his chair, making you shrink back in
surprise. ‘I am especially interested in the transmigra-
tion of souls,’ he shrieks, ‘and in spirit possession!’

269

Then you see it: the glow of something round his
neck, an amulet perhaps, hidden beneath his robes.
The madman leaps to his feet and draws a sinuous
dagger from the folds of his robes. Poison drips from
the blade. You cannot escape, and you will have to

fight him.

SANDAR SKILL 8 STAMINA 13

If Sandar strikes you, you will lose 3 sTAMINA points
rather than the usual two, because of the poison on his
dagger. You may fight him normally, or you can try
to snatch the amulet from round his neck. If you do,
you must deduct 2 points from your Attack Strength.
If you have the higher Attack Strength, you tug the
amulet away; turn to 348. Otherwise, if three Attack
Rounds pass and you have still not taken the amulet
away from him, you must tur at once to 23.

You smash the container, but nothing happens. You
can now smash one with dust inside if you like (turn
to 301) or one with mist and sparks (turn to 96) or
you can leave and search elsewhere (turn to 7).

a
270-271

270
The Megaghoul has not been appointed the Count's
final guardian for nothing. When it has the higher
Attack Strength, you must roll one dice and consult
the table below to see how much damage its blow has
done you. If it strikes you four times or more, turn at
once to 84.

MEGAGHOUL SKILL 10 STAMINA 13
Dice Roll Damage
1 Lose 2 points from your STAMINA
2-4 Lose 2 points from your STAMINA
+ 1 point for acid damage
5-6 Lose 2 points from your STAMINA

+ 1 point for acid damage + 1
point for poison damage

If you win, turn to 294.

271
Returning to the main entrance hall, you can now
enter the east wing, if you have not done so before
(turn to 349), or the west wing, if you haven’t done so
before (turn to 144), or leave the mansion house
altogether (turn to 40).

272-273

272
The woods are very dark. Even the light from your
lantern seems to penetrate the gloom of the densely
packed trees scarcely at all. You can hear a very faint
howling sound, which is getting louder and nearer
even as you try to press onwards. Will you:

Try to get back to the road?

Climb a tree and try to stay out of
trouble? Turn to 101

Wait and draw your sword? Turn to 66

Turn to 339

273

The Vampire is already channelling power into his
hands in order to cast another spell at you. You must
get across the rock bridge without delay! Test your
Skill, adding 2 to the number rolled. If you are success-
ful, you reach Count Heydrich quickly enough to
begin fighting hand-to-hand. If you fail, he casts his
spell, and a cone of frozen ice-shards slams into you as
you approach him; deduct 2 points from your
STAMINA, and you must subtract 2 from your Attack
Strength for the first three Attack Rounds because of
the chill and numbing effect of the spell. Turn to 138.

274-276

274

An intense sensation of evil hits you like a blast of
cold air as you open the door. This cold stone chamber
is wholly bare, and to the west, chiselled stone steps
lead downwards. A single figure stands here. In the
gloom, you might well take it for a Zombie or a
Ghoul, but it is the Grand Revenant which bars the
way to Heydrich’s subterranean lair and is a terrible
enemy. Magic has infused its bones with immense
strength and ferocity, and there is no escaping it now.
You must fight for your life.

GRAND REVENANT SKILL 10 STAMINA 14

If you win, turn to 372.

275
You hurry on downwards, through a cavern with
bright red-orange stripes in the grey limestone, some-
what resembling a side of bacon, if rather more colour-
ful! Ahead of you is a yawning chasm and two rock
platforms cross it to more caverns beyond; both of
them look strong and safe to cross. If you want to
take the right-hand platform, turn to 110. If you want
to take the left-hand platform, turn to 307.

276
By great good fortune you come across a simple
farmer leading a horse back to his farmstead. ‘Darned
thing escaped again. He loves running away, the wretch.
Must have been all the noise of folks getting up at
nights that roused him,’ the old farmer grumbles. The
horse looks distinctly perky and frisky, not the usual

277-278

farm workhorse at all. If you want to, you can buy the
horse, but it’s going to cost you every Gold Piece you
have, no matter how much that is. If you're ready to
pay up, turn to 87. If you won't hand over all your
gold, turn to 203.

277

You approach the cave entrance but can make out
only darkness. Lighting your lantern, you edge your
way into a space and then you see a passage leading
further into the rock crag opposite, so you head
towards it. As you do, there is a dull ‘pop’ above you
and you look up to see some large fungi on the ceiling
which have just released a cloud of choking spores
over you! Test your Skill. If you are successful, you
manage to get out of their way before the spores
reach the level of your head; turn to 370. If you fail,
you must lose 2 STAMINA points through coughing
and choking (if you have Lung Rot, you must lose 4
STAMINA points; turn to 343.

278
With a wave of your hand the old man conjures up a
pair of Imps. You have to fight them together before
you can get at him.

279

SKILL STAMINA
First IMP 7 5
Second IMP 7 6

If you manage to overcome the Imps, the old man
now fights with a long, shatterproof glass rod, dripping
acid. You will be fortunate to survive this combat!

DOKTOR VERRUCKTE SKILL 8 STAMINA 9

If you win, you search the laboratory but find nothing
you can use. The script on the book the man was
reading has disappeared, leaving only blank pages.
You can either climb the stairs and search further (turn
to 173) or leave and explore elsewhere (turn to 7).

279

Not far from the coaching inn the road leads north-
eastwards and you have a long journey ahead of you.
You ask everyone you meet about the coach, and from
time to time someone tells you he has seen the
infernal carriage. You can only hope that you are still
on the right track. If you have a horse, you need to eat
two meals during your travels. If you are on foot, you
must eat five meals. If you have Bloodbane, you must
deduct 2 more points from your Initial and Current
STAMINA scores. Eventually you find yourself in a
small hamlet, where you may buy supplies if you have
any money to pay for them. You can buy Provisions;
1 Gold Piece will buy enough for 3 meals. If you want
to sell your horse (if you have one!), a farmer will give
you 4 Gold Pieces for him. It’s daylight robbery, but
you have little choice. No one here will sell you a

nnn nas ne

280-282

horse, though: they’re in short supply, except for
clapped-out nags that no one in their right mind
would want to own. If you want to ask about healing
or scholars or any magician who may be living in the
area, turn to 334. If you want to press on, turn to 89.

280
You are brave — and very foolhardy. The chasm is
both wide and deep. Test your Skill, adding 3 to the
total rolled. If you succeed, turn to 361. If you fail,
your body is smashed to pieces on the jagged rocks
far below and your adventure ends here.

281
On a sudden whim, you start looking for anything on
Mortvania or Vampires. You find a small section of
books on the undead, and — interestingly — a number
of books are definitely missing from this section, given
the gap in the shelves. Several books must have been
borrowed. There isn’t any kind of ledger of borrowings
here, however. Will you now:

Turn to 218
Turn to 265
Turn to 197

Go up to the dome?
Explore the east wing further?
Explore the west wing?

282
You demand to know who sent the thugs to attack
you. The grovelling wretch says that a huge brute of a
man, someone the villagers had never seen before,
came to Fendringham the night before last and told
the thugs to expect you. ‘Gave us ten gold each to

283

deal with yer, ‘e did,’ the man says. ‘’E was a rum ‘un.
Dressed in summat wot looked like a big black sack,
and ’e ‘ad these ‘orrible scars all over ‘is face.’ The man
shudders at the memory. Then his face changes into a
mask of devilish cunning, as if he was possessed, and
before you can react he whips a knife from behind the
calf of one leg and drives the blade into your stomach.
The weapon carries a deadly poison; you must lose 2
STAMINA points from the blow. Now roll four dice
and add the numbers rolled. If the total is greater than
your STAMINA score, you are killed outright and your
adventure ends here. If the total is less than your
STAMINA score, you must still deduct 4 additional
points from your sTAMINA because of the agonizing
venom. If you are still alive, you strike the man down
with your sword. Now, will you:

Barricade yourself in the room and

go to sleep? Turn to 333
Go to the bar and demand to know

more about the man who paid to

have you killed? Turn to 384
Leave the inn and make for Mortus

Mansion? Turn to 92

283
You can buy many items in Farleigh; this is a market
village, after all. Make your purchases from the list
below and alter your Adventure Sheet accordingly.

1 Gold Piece
1 Gold Piece
1 Gold Piece

Food (2 Provisions)
10 metres of rope
Garlic (one string)

283

5 Gold Pieces
4 Gold Pieces
4 Gold Pieces
3 Gold Pieces
5 Gold Pieces
4 Gold Pieces
7 Gold Pieces
4 Gold Pieces
2 Gold Pieces
4 Gold Pieces
3 Gold Pieces
15 Gold Pieces
5 Gold Pieces

Belladonna (Lycanthropy cure)
Herbal cure for Lung Rot
Herbal cure for Bloodbane
Ghoulbane, 1 vial

Silver stake and mallet
Climbing boots for hill-climbing
Potion of Stamina

Potion of Luck

Flask of herbal liqueur
Anti-venom (1 vial)

Silver mirror

Magic sword

Longbow and quiver of arrows

Belladonna will cure Lycanthropy, if you have it;
consuming Belladonna means you will have to lose 2
STAMINA points from the effects of the poison, how-
ever. If you have Bloodbane, and you cure it now, you
may restore your Initial sTAMINA score to its full
value. Ghoulbane can be smeared on a sword and will
allow you to add 2 points to your Attack Strength in
a combat against any kind of Ghoul. One vial contains
enough for three applications, one application lasts for
a single combat. You can smear it on your sword
immediately before any fight with a Ghoul of any
kind. A Potion of Stamina, when drunk, restores lost
STAMINA points equal to half your Initial sTAMINA
score, rounding fractions down. A Potion of Luck
restores 1-3 lost Luck points (roll one dice and divide
the number rolled by 2, rounding fractions up). A flask
of liqueur restores 4 STAMINA points when drunk.
Anti-venom will protect you from poison for one

284

combat or encounter — the first after you have drunk
it. If a paragraph instructs you to lose staAMINA from
poison and you have drunk Anti-venom, you lose no
STAMINA. All these liquids can be drunk at any time,
except during combat. A magic sword adds 1 to your
Attack Strength during combat. A longbow will allow
you to fire arrows at enemies from a distance; some
paragraphs will offer you the option of using it when
appropriate. When you have made your purchases,
you can ask around to find a sage or scholar, if you
haven't already done so (turn to 373), or you can
continue on your way north-eastwards (turn to 198).
Alternatively, if you want to make for another place
whose name you know, tum to 304.

284

You have made the right choice. Shrouded in the
darkness beyond the archway is the last coffin of your
hated enemy, but you see a slight figure bending over
it. She stands up straight and faces you, fear written
large on her face. She is very beautiful, though eerily
pale, with long, black hair framing her face. ‘Thank all
the gods of good,’ she purrs, ‘you have slain the
monster!’ Will you ask her to tell you her story (turn
to 309) or will you attack her (turn to 391)?

285-287

285
You were unwise to ignore the warning. As you
trudge through the village, a hulking figure comes
flailing at you from behind. It is man-like and carries a
huge, wooden club, studded with chunks of metal. It
wears only black sacking and appears to have been
cobbled together from bits of various bodies. The
monster stands an arm’s length taller than you and is
immensely muscular and strong. Test your Luck. If you
are Lucky, you manage to avoid the monster's first
blow. If you are Unlucky, it strikes you with the
benefit of surprise and you must deduct 2 points from
your STAMINA. Tum to 190.

286

As you move towards the lantern, the workman sud-
denly becomes agitated. He picks up a heavy iron bar
that is hooked and serrated at one end, and he looks at
you very threateningly. If you want the lantern,
you're going to have to fight this very muscular and
powerful-looking man. If you decide to fight him, turn
to 335. Alternatively, you can decide to leave the
coach-house and make for the main mansion house
instead (turn to 46).

287
Clearly the east wall of this corridor is not flush with
the entrance hall. Searching carefully, you find a secret
door on the east side of the passage. If you want to
open it, turn to 318. Alternatively, you can open the
western door (turn to 35) or the door at the end of the
corridor (turn to 208).

288-291

288
You have blundered into a deadly trap! As the door
opens, spears fly along the corridor from the south
and hammer into your back. You are propelled forward
into the deep, spike-filled pit behind the door. Your
adventure ends here!

289
You must pay 1 Gold Piece to stay here. If you wish
to pay this, turn to zo. If you cannot, or aren't
prepared to pay, you must look for somewhere else to
stay and rest (turn to 323) or you may leave and keep
watch over the inn from a safe distance (turn to 394).

290
Forcing open the chest, you find some brass-bound
volumes. One in particular catches your eye: A History of
Mortvania, Vol. 8. Flicking through its pages, you see that
many notes have been made in the margins. Unfortu-
nately, you hear steps coming towards the room! Look-
ing around, you see that you can hide yourself in the
wardrobe if you wish to avoid whoever is coming. If you
want to do this, you must Test your Luck. If youare Lucky,
turn to 112. If you are Unlucky, turn to 154. If you are
prepared stand your ground and meet the approaching
man, turn to 385.

291
You strike at the older crone with your sword. If you
do not have a magic sword, you cannot harm her and
she will destroy you. Otherwise, fight on!

SHEVALA SKILL 9 STAMINA 11

292-294

In the first two Attack Rounds, Shevala will attack by
using spells: she fires small bolts of lightning into your
body. If she has the higher Attack Strength, you must
lose 4 STAMINA points from her attack. If you have
the higher Attack Strength, you will strike her and her
spell will be ruined. From the third Attack Round
onwards, she fights with a poisoned dagger. If she
strikes you, roll one dice. If you roll 4 or higher, you
lose 1 additional sTAMiNA point because of the venom
on her blade. If you win, Test your Spot Skill. If you are
successful, turn to 311. If you fail, turn to 355.

292
This tomb room is empty, save for the fine stone
tomb of the long-dead knight within it. You gain
nothing by your choice. The knight’s ghost ushers you
out of the tomb, and you make for the door half-way
along the passage beyond the tombs, and open it.
Turn to 393.

293
You can hear someone muttering to himself — it is
Endrell’s voice! ‘Must have escaped,’ he is cursing. ‘He
will have killed to eat — it’s too late to worry now. I
must get everything out of here and go to the Master.’
Then the voice stops and you stand deadly still, but you
can see a light coming towards you from the corridor
below. If you want to stay where you are and challenge
Endrell, turn to 316. If you opt to attack him, turn to 69.

294
Having felled the Count’s guardian, you are standing
on the opposite side of the narrow bridge to the

ee Ge

A

295-296

villainous, saturnine Vampire. He seems to be growing
in strength even as you look at him. How will you
assail him? If you want to throw Blackfire at him, turn
to 231. If you want to drink a mystery potion, you
know the number of scratches on the potion vial.
Multiply that number by sixteen to arrive at a new
total, then turn to the paragraph with the same number.
If you want to throw acid at the Count, turn to 83. If
you want to fire an arrow from a longbow at the
Vampire, turn to 397. If you want to race across the
rock bridge and attack him, turn to 273.

295
You are no botanist, and scouring a forest for a plant
you probably can’t recognize, at night, is not a wise move.
Lose 1 Blood Point for the delay, and you must now eat a
meal. Now return to the main trail. Turn to 148.

296
The creature used, or attempted to use, most of the
filled vessels that were here, and there is little left for
you to take. There is one heavy flask labelled ‘Oil of
Disenchantment’, and it has a number inscribed into
the wax seal on it; the number is ‘260’, so make a note
of this. You can have no way of knowing what the oil
does, of course (it may remove enchantments — or it
could be a miserable disappointment when you find
out what it does do!). You will be offered the chance
to use this oil later on. There are also some notes from
a ‘Dr Verruckte’, instructions for preparing ‘essence
containers’, whatever they are, and an order to deliver
them to the west wing of the building. If you want to

297

make for the west wing of the building now, turn to
144. If you want to explore a part of the east wing
which you have not seen before, turn to 399.

297

Gain 1 Luck point and 1 FAITH point for achievement!
Exploring the area, you find a cave entrance in the
side of Crab Peak. You explore the passage and caves
inside, but in one area a cluster of fungi on the roof
releases showers of choking spores over you. Lose 2
STAMINA points through coughing and choking (lose
4 STAMINA points if you already have Lung Rot). You
find a large cavern with a steaming cauldron hissing
and spitting fire: the witches’ lair! Exploring this
cavern, you find a rock which can be rolled away to
reveal a small alcove. Just as you are about to see
what lies beyond, a pair of tall, dark-haired men with
stout leather armour and well-polished swords come
striding into the cavern behind you. ‘Just our luck,’ one
of the bandits grins, ‘we'd been watching those witches
for weeks, trying to sneak in here when they were out.
Now this idiot comes along and kills them for us, and
we get to take all their treasure!’ They draw their
swords and attack you. You can back up against a wall
and fight them one at a time.

SKILL STAMINA
First BANDIT Os 7
Second BANDIT 7 6

If you win, you can take 3 Gold Pieces and enough
food for 2 meals from them. You roll back the rock
you were on the point of examining. Turn to 220.

ee |

298-299

298

You feel bewildered and disorientated. You are stand-
ing on a hazy, insubstantial surface, surrounded by
barren plains and mists. Before you stands a single
glowing figure, tall, fair-haired and grave in appear-
ance. ‘He is gone to the Ghoulcrypts,’ the spectre
declares sadly. “You will have to follow him there.’
You stand still, trying to get your breath back. You
have no idea who this figure is until he introduces
himself. ‘I am Siegfried, Reiner’s brother and his nem-
esis. When he was brought back into existence, the
magic also called me back from my own resting-place.
We are inseparable: he is the darkness, I am the light.
But I am still trapped here and can do nothing to stop
him. I do know where he is, however, and I can help
you. Pass beyond the northern Great Wall to the
margins of the Shamutanti Hills and seek the village of
Sharnek. Find the Gatekeeper. He has stood guard for
many long years over the secret places, and he will be
glad that his long wait is over. When you find the
Ghoulcrypts, you must seek the tomb of the fifth and
last Knight of the Thorn there. Not only the Vampire
Elders are buried in that place; the tombs of their five
greatest enemies, those fabled Knights, stand there
also. In that fifth tomb you will find a great weapon to
aid you against Reiner. This time, you must destroy
him utterly.’ If you have a red crystal heart, turn to
249. If you do not have this, turn to 34.

299
Through the gloom and mist you can make out the
shape of the mansion house in front of you. To your

300-301

right, however, there is a coach-house and a set of
stables. If you want to explore the stables and coach-
house, turn to 321. If you prefer to make straight for the
main house, turn to 46. If you want to prowl around in
the grounds and explore generally, turn to 378.

300
If you overcame Sandar in battle, turn to 89. If you did
not, turn to 367.

301
You smash the container, and an intense chill emanates
from it and freezes you to the bone. Deduct 4 points
from your STAMINA. You decide it will not be wise to
smash any more flasks, so you leave to search else-
where. Turn to 7.

302-304

302

You notice that Endrell is showing some anxiety about
Marcus seeing the notes; clearly he doesn’t want the
younger man to see what has been written in them!
Turn to 33.

303

The Blackfire destroys all the skeletons instantly. You
step out with a spring in your stride: will you now
follow the left-hand passage (turn to 164) or continue
straight ahead (turn to 202)?

304

Change the letters of the place you want to go to into
numbers, using the code A = 1, B = 2, C = 3 and
so on, and add together the numbers corresponding to
the letters, then turn to the paragraph with the same
number. If you do not turn to a paragraph beginning
‘An endless plain stretches ahead of you ...’ you have
made the wrong choice; return to paragraph 148 and
select a place to go to that you have not visited

before.

305-306

305
Your longbow is of no use, alas, for the witch can be
harmed only by magical weapons. Your useless arrow
sails across the cavern and lands at her feet. But a
shower of burning smoke covers you and you must
lose 3 STAMINA points. Now you can either throw
acid at her, if you have some (turn to 398), or rush and
attack her with your sword (turn to 31).

306
You are eager to read Sewarth’s Codex — which must
have been the reason Heydrich went to the monastery:
to steal this book away and guard its secrets. But you
have hardly read the first page when your fingers slip
from the page in utter exhaustion. After all, you have
ridden all night, and you are desperately tired. Turn to

379-

307-308

307
With a sigh of relief you reach the far end of the rock
bridge and see fluted pillars of sculpted stone ahead of
you. You approach them carefully and discover that
they are massive stalactites. There is plenty of room to
pass between them, so you push on ahead and down-
wards, following the passage as it descends into a
huge cave with many more, if less spectacular, stalac-
tites growing down from the ceiling. These have
bulbous globes on their tips, yellow-orange centres
and a milky surround. There is an unpleasant smell in
this chamber, not unlike that of rotten eggs. Far to the
north, in the darkness, you can hear rushing water.
You can also see a small constellation of sparks gliding
lazily towards you through the air. If you want to
enter the cavern, turn to 14. If you want to back out,
turn to 374.

308
Sounds of yelling and snarling can be heard coming
from the woods to your left. You creep silently to-
wards the source of the noise’ and come upon a man

8 8 SS  _ ____________._____—

309-310

trying to keep at bay a pair of heavy-muzzled, thick-
furred wolves that are circling him and snarling. Beside
the man lie the body of a warrior and three wolf
corpses too. The man doesn’t look much of a warrior
and is clearly desperately frightened. He has only a
knife for self-defence and the wolves look set to finish
him off easily. If you want to go to his aid, turn to
396. If you decide not to fight the wolves but continue
through the woods and return to the trail beyond the
mist patch, turn to 15. If you decide to hang around
and see what happens, turn to 86.

309
The woman, who tells you that her name is Anna,
says she is the slave of the hated Count. He hypnotized
her and took her away from her home, and he has
kept her here for many months. Her voice is soothing
and you are inclined to trust her, but you are eager to
finish off the Vampire — and she wants to keep on
pouring out her tale! At last you push past her and
advance on the coffin. Too late! The woman’s long
fangs are beginning to show, and her nails suddenly
reach out and claw at your neck; deduct 2 points from
your STAMINA. She is in fact Katarina Heydrich, Reiner’s
Vampyre sister, and now you have to fight her!

KATARINA HEYDRICH — sKILL10_ STAMINA 11
If you win, turn to 44.
310

Crab Peak, you know, lies in the shadow of the Great
Wall. By heading north-west from where you are now,

311-312

you will surely bump into someone closer to the area,
who will be able to tell you where it can be found.
Turn to 57.
311

Carollar is smiling in a very unpleasant manner. You
realize that this is not just because you have killed her
rival — she’s going to attack you! You have time for
one brief action. You have no time to eat a meal, but
you can drain a flask of herbal liqueur or use a magical
item, if you have such things. Then you will have to
fight the treacherous crone. Turn to 355.

312
From behind your back a spectral figure comes flying
at you; it is one of the many undead which haunt the
crypts. The Wraith has a chill aura about it and, if it
strikes you, you will be in serious trouble!

WRAITH SKILL 8 STAMINA 9

If you win, and if the Wraith struck you at least once,
roll one dice. If you roll 1-4, the Wraith drained you
of 1 point of skit! Turn to 156.

313-314

313

The laboratory here is a bizarre clutter. Vessels of
bronze, iron and glass seem to have been thrown
around randomly, though they are connected by many
glass and brass pipes which run all over the place.
Oily foul-smelling fluids bubble and simmer in flasks
suspended over oil-burning lamps. Strings of rank
weeds and grasses, bundled together, hang from iron
rails suspended from the ceiling. Vats hold coloured
liquids, and there is even one filled with what looks
unpleasantly like rendered fat. Steam gushes from odd
mechanical contrivances which clank and whirr.
Wooden steps lead upwards into darkness at the
eastern end of the room. Seated high above this
mechanical pandemonium and poring over a huge
book is a white-haired old man with an implausibly
long nose, on the end of which perch huge eyeglasses.
He looks up at you irritably. ‘What is it?’ he snaps. ‘I’m
very busy. I've got the Ghoul essences to get ready
for next week, and the fat-digesting machines got
clogged up this morning. What do you want?’

You hardly know what to make of all this. If you want
to attack the man, turn to 199. If you prefer to talk to
him, turn to 227. If you decide to retreat and search
elsewhere, turn to 7.

314
Surprisingly, the room on other side of this door has

no tomb in it, just a stone statue of a huge knight,
mightily muscled and strong-faced. You gaze at the
beautifully sculpted figure for a moment before you

315

realize that the sword in the man’s right hand is not
made of stone at all: it is of metal! Excitedly you prise
it away from the stone hand which grips it only
loosely. If you have Laterit Vampirism, turn to 36. If
you have Lycanthropy, turn to 366. If you have
neither affliction, turn to 53.

315
‘Together, however, the three of us did manage to
piece together one of the Vampire’s final secrets.
Three witches of Analand constructed a crystal heart:
while this infernal object is still in existence, Heydrich
cannot be destroyed. We also learned where the crones
can be found; it’s at a place named Crab Peak, in the
shadow of the Great Wall. It lies far to the west of
here. There was something else, however.’ Harquar
ponders for a moment.

‘There is a deeper secret Heydrich possesses, for
surely he would not allow himself to remain in the
witches’ power. We came to believe that he has some
deeper retreat, some far-away source of power of his
own. He has just used the witches to bring himself
back to strength before he calls upon this power,
whatever it may be. My guess is that you will find out
what it may be only by entering Mortus Mansion, as
his home is called. Should you make for the witches,
however, beware their strength. Together they could
destroy you utterly. You should try to vanquish them
one at a time, if at all possible. As for me, I think I
should seek refuge where the Vampire cannot send
any more things after me.’

316-317

Harquar now gives you some correspondence that
passed between himself, Sewarth and Henrik. There
are 15 pages of these (make a note of this) and they
will give you some clues about Mortus Mansion
which may come in useful later. Gain 2 Blood Points.
You consider what Harquar has told you. You ought
now to make either for the witches (turn to 57) or for
Mortus Mansion itself (turn to 198).

316

You startle Endrell as he approaches. You say,
lamely, that you were looking for food in the
kitchen, you saw the open trapdoor and you were
curious. He seems flustered and says that he thought
he heard an intruder in the catacombs. He seems
only too happy to find some food for you in’ the
kitchens and brews two herbal nightcaps for himself
and for you. He escorts you back to your room,
then has a young monk virtually stand guard outside
it. You decide to do some more snooping tomorrow.
Turn to go.

317
You edge forward along a winding passage with a
low ceiling. Flickering blue light glimmers ahead and
the passage straightens, the walls grow smoother and
the floor easier to walk along. On either side of you
are three wall-alcoves, and inside each is a skeletal
figure. In the distance you can see that the passage
continues and there is a side-turning to your left.
You have a pretty good idea that the skeletal figures

ae

318-319

will come to life and attack you as you approach
them, so what are you going to do? Will you:

Throw Blackfire at the skeletons, if

you have some? Turn to 303
Fire an arrow at the nearest one, if

you have a longbow? Turn to 68
Throw some acid at the skeletons, if

you have any? Turn to 178

Grip your sword tightly and attack
the first skeleton?
Just walk straight ahead?

Tum to 104
Turn to 327

318

The door opens into a pitch-black area. By the light of
your lantern, you can see a large wooden table with a
coffin on it; the coffin is lined with a coating of earth.
Black and red silks are hung on the walls and draped
round the coffin itself. You can’t see anything or
anyone inside the room, but you have a strong sensa-
tion of evil, and your skin is clammy with fear. The
sense of danger is strong! If you want to enter and
destroy the Vampire's coffin, turn to 388. If you think
better of it, you can retreat and open the western door
in the corridor (turn to 35) or the door at the far end
of it (turn to 208).

319
The man is clearly disappointed at your decision to
depart. Now you will have to wander around alone,
looking for any crypt entrances outside the village.
First, you have to find somewhere to stay for the
night; this will cost 1 Gold Piece. If you don’t have

320-321

this, or if you won't pay, then you must eat a meal
and you sleep fitfully outdoors; deduct 2 points from
your STAMINA.

In the moming, you can buy some Provisions if you
wish to; 1 Gold Piece buys enough for 2 meals, and
you can buy as much food as you can carry. After
endless searching round the outskirts of the village, all
you have turned up is the entrance to some long-
abandoned mines. If there are any crypts below them,
no one is saying so, but the villagers are a furtive lot
and have little to say anyway. You must lose 2 Blood
Points for this delay in searching. It’s time to go down
into the depths! Turn to 134.

320

If you have the sword Imperator, turn to 365. If you
do not have this sword, you can fight normally (turn
to 243) or use a silver mirror to fight with (turn to
345).

321
The doors of the coach-house creak open. Inside, in
barely lit gloom, you can see a dark coach which you
recognize as one that sped away from the monastery.
A large pair of swing doors leads into the stables
proper, while a smaller door leads into a separate
room. Will you:

Explore the coach? Turn to 364
Open the pair of doors? Turn to 233
Open the small door? Turn to 22

nn,

322-323

322
The Demon Hound spits fire and acid at you, as well
as biting and hammering at you with its stone-hard
hoofs. If you do not have a magic sword, you cannot
harm it and your adventure ends here. Otherwise, you
must subtract 1 from your Attack Strength when
fighting this horror for the spray of flame and acid it
directs at you makes it difficult to see the thing
properly — let alone strike at it!

DEMON HOUND °* SKILL 10 STAMINA 10

If you win, you can open one of the two doors. The
one with the magical trap which summoned the Demon
Hound is immovably jammed shut now and you cannot
open it. This leaves you with the choice of opening
the door half-way along the passage (turn to 399) or
opening the door with the shield motif at the end of it
(turn to 11).

323
You find a farmstead, a kilometre or so away from the
coaching inn, where you can rest in a barn — you're
very tired as you've ridden through the night. You
must now eat a meal. You can buy some Provisions
from the farmer’s wife if you have some money — 1
Gold Piece will buy you enough for 3 meals (add 3 to
your Provisions) and you may buy as much food as
your backpack can carry, if you are able to pay. Alter
the Provisions and Treasure boxes on your Adventure
Sheet accordingly. Then you settle down for some
badly needed sleep. Turn to 379. -

324-327

324

You can take supplies from the kitchens: enough food
for 4 meals (add 4 to your Provisions) and a flask of
oil, normally used for cooking, which may prove
useful to you later on. This. oil can’t be used to
replenish a lantern, however. You now return to the
main passage in the east wing; turn to 399.

325
Shevala told you to utter words which in fact enhance
the magical trap here. All that remains of you after
you step into the magical barrier is a half-melted
sword and a pair of steaming boots. Your adventure
ends here.

326

You fall asleep eventually and don’t wake up until
after noon. During the day, you are politely prevented
from exploring much of the monastery and your
questions are evaded with equal courtesy. You are told
that Sewarth and Sandar are still away. Lose 2 Blood
Points. If you have already spent at least two nights in
the monastery, turn to 61. If you have slept here for
only one night, turn to 74.

327

Roll two dice. If the total is equal to or greater than
your FAITH score, turn to 104. If it is less than your
FAITH score, you escape and take the left-hand turning
in the passage (turn to 164) or march straight ahead
(turn to 202).

328-329

328

Groping your way through the fog, you find a farm
girl standing over the body of a youth that has been
dumped beside some straggling thorn bushes. ‘The
bandits! They have killed Frederick,’ she says miserably.
You look down at the body. The young man still
seems to be breathing, so you bend forward to inspect
the body more closely. You see a nasty wound on his
neck, and you wonder what ...

Then the woman is attacking you, clawing at you with
long nails, trying to sink her fangs into your throat!
You must fight for your life here!

VAMPYRE SKILL 9 STAMINA 11

If the Vampyre has an Attack Strength of 21 in any
Attack Round, make a note of this paragraph number,
then turn to gs. If you win, turn to 128.

329
You prise away the rock and make your way quietly
underground. There is a faint phosphorescent glow
from wall fungi here, and you don’t need your lantern.
The passages you enter are oddly sculpted, as if by
some long-lost race of subterranean dwellers; they
twist at odd angles, and the floor is slightly rippled
and irregular. Keeping your eyes peeled, you come to
a side door, which you find to be locked and which
you cannot open. In front of you is a junction, one
passage leading ahead and the other branching away
to your left. If you want to go straight on, turn to
377. If you prefer to bear off to the left, turn to 363.

a
Bh
Gr re ee

330-331

330

You can fight the monster normally with a sword; turn
to 270 if you choose to do this. If you want to hurl
Blackfire at the monster, you already know the number
inscribed on the vial of Blackfire; multiply this number
by three to get a new total, then turn to the paragraph
with the same number. If you have a mystery potion
which you have not identified and you want to try
using it here, you know how many scratches are on
the flask. Multiply this number by thirteen to get a
total, then turn to the paragraph with the same number.
If you want to throw acid at the horror, turn to 21.

331

‘There he is!’ you hear Marcus cry as you leave the
chapel. ‘He murdered Endrell!’ The Elder must have
summoned help from the people of the lakeside, for
two burly men, armed with swords and wearing stiff
leather jerkins and carrying shields, are coming along
the corridor towards you. You realize that trying to
argue is pointless. You are forced to fight these en-
emies together.

332

SKILL STAMINA
First MILITIAMAN 7 7
Second MILITIAMAN 7 6

If you win, Marcus has fled and you must now move
swiftly! You can try the south door here (turn to 381)
or the other door to the north in this west wing (turn
to 225).

332

You mumble something about needing help with your
problem, and the man look faintly disappointed. ‘Is
that all?’ he mutters. He gets down from his raised
desk and rummages through some flasks, pouring
liquids together to form a most unappetizing,
greenish-brown slime, which he decants into a dusty
goblet. ‘Drink that,’ he says briskly. You manage to
force the stomach-turning filth down your throat. It
really is disgusting stuff, but you are cured of all the
afflictions you have! Gain 1 Luck point. The man is
growing impatient with you and wants you to leave
now. You can either leave and search elsewhere (turn
to 7) or attack him (turn to 278).

en eee eee eee, rOrOOCO— Ee

333-334

333
You barricade the door and settle down to an anxious

sleep. Fortunately there are no more disturbances.
Next moming, you eat a hearty breakfast and set off
for Mortus Mansion. Turn to 49.

334
The occupants of this hamlet are mercenary wretches.

‘Give us a gold and I'll tell you what you want to
know,’ is all that any of them will say. If you are
willing to pay up, turn to 358. If you can’t — or won't —
pay, turn to 8g. You could also spend a day working
here, doing manual labour, in order to earn a Gold

335

Piece if you want their help. If you do this, you must
lose 1 Blood Point for the delay, and you will lose 1
point from both your Initial and Current stTAMINA
scores if you have Bloodbane. Then you should press
onwards by turning to 89.

335
The thick-set man fights with extraordinary ferocity,

swinging his iron bar at you!

SADDLER SKILL 8 STAMINA 11

If you win, you make take his lantern. It won't be of
any use to light your way, for the lantern has red
lenses and the radiance from it is baleful and doesn’t
illuminate anything clearly. There is a pattern echoed
on the glass lenses, showing vaguely human figures
shrouded in cocoons; you have no idea what these
images mean. You return to the main coach-house.
You can now open the double wooden doors if you
haven't done so already (turn to 233), explore the
coach, if you haven't done so (turn to 364), or make
for the mansion house itself (turn to 46).

330-337

336

As you are about to remove the gag from the young
man’s mouth, his eyes turn in the direction of the
stairs at the same moment as a huge monster, clad in
gleaming metal and yet with a body of rotting flesh,
hurls itself down the steps from the darkened room
above. This is a Ghoul, but one unlike any other you
have seen. Bands of metal are sunk into its arms and
legs, and from its hand protrude knife-long metal
blades. It looks as if an insane creator had used fused
metal into the Ghoul’s body to strengthen it — and it
is a formidably powerful opponent. Fortunately, given
the warning of the young man’s gaze, you are balanced
and ready to fight it!

STEEL GHOUL STAMINA 12

SKILL 9

If you win, turn to 25.

337
There are so many books and documents in this

library, and you don’t really know what you are
looking for. Test your Spot Skill. If you are successful,
turn to 281. If you are unsuccessful, you lose time in a

i 7q

338-339

fruitless search; lose 1 Blood Point. You can now go
up to the dome (turn to 218), explore elsewhere in the
east wing (turn to 265) or leave and go to the west
wing (turn to 197).

338

Having slain the Vampyre, you tip the coffin over and
smash the wood. Gain 4 Blood Points! From the
depths of the Ghoulcrypts for a moment a great groan
of anguish rises up. Perhaps the wretched Count now
knows that you are here and that his end is nigh —
you hope. Now you return to the main passage and
press forward into the depths of the Ghoulcrypts.
Turn to 202.

339
With the sound of wolves closing all round you, can

you keep calm and retrace your steps? Test your Skill.
If you are successful, you manage to get back to the
trail — but you are in the mist now, so turn to 39. If
you fail, you stumble and twist an ankle; deduct 1
point from your stTAMINA. The howling creatures are
upon you! Turn to 66.

340-341

340

You enter a comfortable living room. Padded smoking-
jackets hang on pegs on the walls, and the Count's
favourite armchair nestles comfortably beside a large
table with glasses, bottles and decanters on it. Unfortu-
nately, on the wall directly above the door is a trophy
of the Count’s Mortvanian hunting days. The head of
a huge black bear comes to life the moment you enter,
and the wooden plaque on which it is set flies down
from the wall! The animated head snarls and growls,
and the bear's teeth are quite capable of inflicting
serious injury upon you if you do not destroy this
magical creation swiftly!

BEAR TROPHY SKILL 8 STAMINA 7

If you win, you can take two flasks of herbal liqueur
from the table. Each one can be drunk at any time,
except during combat, and will restore 4 lost STAMINA
points. Now you can return to the passage outside to
explore elsewhere. Turn to 399.

344

You must Test your Skill. Unless you have some rope
which you can throw up and loop round one of the
gargoyles by the windowsill and so haul yourself up,
you must add 2 to the total rolled on the dice. Each
time you fail, you get part-way up, only to fall; lose 1
STAMINA point. You can keep on trying until you
succeed; when you do, turn to 191, but make a note of
how many attempts you had to make. If you get
bored with continual failure, you decide to hammer on
the front door instead (turn to 37).

342

342
How can you hope to break a huge stone with a sharp
weapon such as a sword? Test your Luck. If you are
Unlucky, your sword simply shatters and you no
longer have a magic sword. If you are Lucky, the
blades does not break, but you quickly realize the
error of your ways. Unfortunately, the stone does not
care for being struck in this way. Out of the shadows
behind you a pair of Giant Spiders come skittering
from their rocky lairs to attack you! You must fight
them together.

SKILL STAMINA
First GIANT SPIDER U4 8
Second GIANT SPIDER 7 8

When you have killed one of the spiders, the second
one will fire silky strands of spider's web at you. Test
your Luck. If you are Lucky, you will not be caught,
but if you are Unlucky, you will be caught up in the
web and you must deduct 1 point from your Attack
Strength for the rest of this fight. If you win, you
decide that you can do nothing further here; you can
either backtrack to the left-hand passage (turn to 363)
or head for the surface (turn to 145).

343-344

343
As you advance along the deeper passage, you hear a

crackling noise in the distance. A stone door opens at
the end of the passage and a vile, hunched thing
comes flying towards you. Gnarled and wrinkled, the
creature looks like a small, shrivelled old man, but it
has leathery wings and the face of a demon. It holds a
small stone wand from which black acid drips on to
the floor. Before you can get to the witch, you have
her Demonling to deal with!

DEMONLING SKILL 8 STAMINA 7

If the Demonling hits you, roll one dice. If you roll a
1, you are splashed by the acid and must lose 3
STAMINA points. If you roll a 6, you get a faceful of
the vicious, corrosive acid; lose 4 sTAMINA points.
You are also blinded for a short time; subtract 2 from
your Attack Strength for the next two Attack Rounds.
If you win, turn to 234.

344
As you approach, the witches break off their argument

and gaze at you suspiciously. They both draw daggers
dripping with venom from the folds in their cloaks.
What are you going to say for yourself? Will you:

Ask about the statue? Turn to 115
Ask about a magical item of some

kind? Turn to 383
Ask if you can help them in some

way? Turn to 43

Try some other strategy? Turn to 72

345-346

345
You turn your eyes away from the hypnotic gaze of

the Vampire and thus save yourself from the dominat-
ing effects of his eyes. However, you must-subtract 1
from your Attack Strength when fighting him. Now
turn to 365.

346

Villagers and other monks are already streaming to-
wards the monastery, attracted by the sound and the
sight of the fleeing coach. The bodies of several
monks are brought out by men with ashen faces. One
monk from a neighbouring monastery mutters some-
thing about Ghouls, and people are beginning to look
uneasy and afraid. It seems that only one of the young
monks from the monastery is left alive. If you want to
try to talk to him, roll one dice and add 4. If the total
rolled is less than your FAITH score, turn to 47. If it is
higher than your FAITH score, it’s time to go. If you
have at least 8 Gold Pieces, turn to 276. If you have
less than this amount, turn to 203.

347

347
You open the door and gaze, open-mouthed, at the

sheer scale of the room in front of you. Seemingly
endless, it is filled with stone tombs and mournful
statues. In an archway to the north is a glowing azure
barrier of light; far to the south there are two more
great archways, each with a huge wooden door and
bronze plaques and handles. It comes as no surprise
when you see what looks like a small army of undead
beginning to advance on you from the south. If you
can't face fighting the Ghouls, Zombies (and perhaps
worse) heading your way, you can slam the door shut
and run like mad back to the entrance hall, where you
will be able to take your bearings and find somewhere
else to search (turn to 271), but you cannot return here
afterwards. However, if you decide to stay, you have
enough time for four actions before the undead reach
you. If you have a longbow, you can fire arrows (firing
a single arrow counts as one action). Test your Skill
each time you fire, and every time you are successful
you can subtract 2 points from the sTAMINA of the
Ghoul Pack. If you have some acid, you can throw this
at them; this takes one action. Test your Skill. If you are
successful, you can subtract 4 points from the sTAMINA
of the Ghoul Pack. If you have Blackfire, you can
throw the vial at the undead. This takes one action,
and the magical wall of fire created will destroy the
Ghoul Pack utterly (you can then fire arrows or throw
acid at the Zombie Pack when you confront them).
After performing four actions, you must fight!

GHOUL PACK SKILL 9 STAMINA 10

a ee ee ee ee. ee

348

If you are struck four times by the Ghoul Pack, turn at
once to 84. If you win, turn to 380.

348

The man’s eyes glaze over as if some enchantment or
spell had been lifted from him; however, as you snatch
the glowing gold amulet away from his throat, it
burns your hand with a fiery, evil magic. Deduct 1
point from your sTAMINA. What’s more, the west
door in this room is now opening and a pair of Zombies
are shambling in from a nearby guard-room. You must
fight the Zombies together, but after 2 Attack Rounds
Sandar will have recovered some of his senses and will
fight on your side. When that happens, you may add 2
to your Attack Strength because of his assistance.

SKILL STAMINA
First ZOMBIE 7 7
Second ZOMBIE 7 7

If you win, turn to 82.

349-351

349
You push open the door to find a long, narrow

passageway, richly carpeted as before, leading east-
wards. In the distance, it swings away southwards, but
before that there are four wooden-panelled doors set
off from it, two on either side. Will you:

Open the first door to the north? Turn to 88
Open the second door to the north? Turn to 65
Open the first door to the south? Turn to 139

Open the second door to the south? Turn to 340
Go to the end of the passage and

turn south? Turn to 182

350
The door here is locked and you have no key to open
it with. You can break it down, but this will take time
and you will make a lot of noise in the process. If you
want to smash the door down anyway, turn to 211.
Otherwise, you must return to the main passageway
and explore deeper into the Ghoulcrypts; turn to 202.

354
Sewarth, you leam, is one of the Elders of the Halls of

the Stars and lives in a small building with a splendid

ee ce ee

551

glass dome. Gossip tells you that the monks of this
place are rather eccentric, even by monkish standards,
and keep themselves to themselves. They have a
reputation for very odd and obscure studies, and no
one is certain exactly what it is they do most of the
time. You approach the monastery and rap the small
gargoyle door-knocker on the front door. A weedy
young man in grey robes opens the door a fraction,
and clearly he doesn’t much like the look of you. You
manage to stick one foot in the door and wave
Henrik’s papers in his face, saying that they must be
delivered to Sewarth urgently. ‘Wait a moment,’ the
youth says, determinedly forcing the door shut despite
the obstacle of your foot.

Inside a minute, two rather older monks are staring at
you round the reopened door. You explain yourself,
and one of them says, ‘Very well, you’d better come
in. Sewarth is away at the moment, but perhaps we
can help.’ They admit you into their hallway and lead
you into a spartan room. You explain how you came
by the papers you are carrying.

352

T am Endrell,’ the taller and older of the monks
says, ‘and this is Marcus. We are two of the four
Elders here. Our colleagues, Sewarth and Sandar, are
away for a short time, though we expect Sewarth
back soon. May I look at the papers you have
brought?’

If you are happy to hand over the papers to him, turn
to 257. If you don’t want to do this, turn to 205.

352
You look through any papers you may have; lose 1
Blood Point for the delay. If you have some letters
from Harquar’s house, you know how many sheets of
paper there are in them. Multiply that number by
eight, then turn to the paragraph with the same
number. Otherwise, you can only step straight into
the portal (turn to 18), speak the words Shevala told
you (turn to 325) or decide to leave. If you leave, you
can make for either the locked door (turn to 239), the
cavern at the very end of the passage, if you haven't
been there before (turn to 206), or the surface (turn to

145).

353-355

353
You can take trinkets and baubles worth 6 Gold Pieces

from the Vampyres. In their over-decorated, rather
lurid chamber you find a third woman sleeping on one
of the silk-covered beds; there are bite marks on her
throat. Now, she may be a Vampyre too, for all you
know; they do feed on one another when desperate.
But she may be an innocent victim, kidnapped perhaps,
and it would be a cowardly and terrible thing to leave
her here at the mercy of the Count’s evil servants.

What will you do? If you decide to try and wake her,
turn to 16. If you want to leave, you can return to the
main passage; turn to 399.

354
You have just abandoned a group of helpless, innocent

young monks to a very unpleasant fate; lose 1 point of
FAITH for your cowardice. Now you can explore the
westernmost north door, if you haven't done so al-
ready (turn to 236), or the other northern door (turn to

225).

355
Carollar attacks you with her envenomed dagger. If

she hits you, roll one dice. If you roll 4-6, you must
lose 1 additional stAMINA point as the poison works
its way into your system!

CAROLLAR SKILL 10 STAMINA 10

If you win, turn to 297.

356-357

You don’t know for certain where Marcus’s rooms are,
but luckily you guess correctly: his study room is just
across the corridor from Endrell’s. You knock gently
on the door and hear a bolt being drawn back. The
door opens just a fraction and the monk’s clearly
frightened face peers out at you. Surprised by his look,
you say that you very much want to talk to him, for
you are worried about Sewarth. He nods and lets you
in. If you found a book in Endrell’s room and you
have fought Endrell, multiply the number of that
volume by the number of metal bands on Endrell’s
staff, then turn to the paragraph with the same number.
If you only glimpsed the book, turn to the paragraph
with the same number as the volume number of the
book. Failing that, turn to 250.

357
‘I am known by some people as the Gatekeeper,’ the

man says cautiously. ‘I know the way into the crypts.
They are far below the old Bluestone mines to the
north of the village. Do you have Sewarth’s Codex
with you, by any chance?’ If you have this book, you

Bad

know. how many pages it contains. Add 100 to that
number to get a total, and turn to the paragraph will
the same number. If you don’t have this book, or if
you don’t want to let this man know that you have it,
take your leave of him and turn to 319.

358

The villagers tell you that a strange, eccentric fellow is
living at the eastern boundary of the hamlet. ‘Forget
‘is name. Zandar, Sender, somefink like that. Anyway,
he mended that lame leg old Snotman had — remem-
ber?’ The others nod their heads in remembrance. ‘He
might be able to help yer if yer got some kind of
disease or something. Bet yer he meddles in magic,
too. Them funny old strangers often do, like.’ There are
vague whispers about ‘furriners’ from the group here.
At the mention of diseases, some of them look at you
a bit askance and you decide it’s probably time to go.
You can seek out this eccentric old healer if you wish
(turn to 5); otherwise you continue north-eastwards in
pursuit of your quarry (turn to 89).

————EE ee

359-360

359
The Count has used a magical portal to transport himself

far away, flying across the planes to his final hideaway.
When you strike the barrier, fire flickers round your body
as you suffer some of the ill-effects it was designed to
inflict on anyone who entered it other than the Vampire;
lose 3 STAMINA points. If you are still alive, turn to 298.

360

The dark-haired, pretty, slender, pale-skinned woman
in the left-hand portrait is Katarina Heydrich, the
Count’s sister. The book warns you that she was a
dangerous magician, probably a Vampire like her
brother; she is believed to have been destroyed — but
then so was Reiner himself! The tall, powerful, blond
man in the third picture is Siegfried Heydrich, the
Count’s brother. The history book tells you that, as a
ghost, he haunted his brother’s wretched castle in
Mortvania and sought to bring about his downfall. It
seems strange that Reiner should have his portrait
here, given that the two were deadly enemies. You
ponder this mystery for a moment, but can’t figure it
out. You decide to explore elsewhere. Turn to 7.

361-363

361
The Vampire hesitates for a moment, astounded by
your heroic leap! You can attack him before he has the
wits to use a magical assault against you. Gain 1 LUCK
point, then turn to 138.

362

Your oil dispels the trap, but it is now all used up, so
remove it from your Possessions. You push open the
door and find yet another of Count Heydrich’s coffins.
This one is arrayed in silks of red and black; however,
it is surrounded by a network of glass and bronze
flasks and tubes which pass into and out of the walls of
the chamber. Hazy blue gas and drops of pale,
yellowish-red fluids trickle out of the tubes into the
interior of the coffin, where they settle in a thick mist,
obscuring the base of the coffin. If you want to destroy
this, you may be taking your life in your hands — but,
then, what are you here for in any case? If you want to
destroy the coffin, turn to 163. Alternatively, you can
back out and head along the passage outside, opening
the left-hand door half-way down (turn to 393) or the
right-hand door at the end (turn to 11).

363
You can hear the sound of muttering ahead of you, so
you edge towards a cave entrance and peer round the

363

corner. The old witch, Shevala, is talking to herself in
her disgusting den. The place is cobwebbed and filthy,
and repulsive sights are on display everywhere:
sheaves of dried bat’s wings, plaited rat-tails, shrunken
heads, great bell-jars full of cloudy liquids containing
eyes, feet and worse — this lair is everything you
feared it would be. On the far side of the room is an
ornate archway, and what lies behind it is obscured by
a glowing blue haze of magical energy. The witch
herself is frantically scrabbling through the pages of a
grimoire. ‘Must be here ... she won't help me... a
thousand curses on the basilisk that turned my sister
to stone!’ At any rate, now you know about the stone
statue you saw the witches arguing over. You draw
your sword and prepare to confront her.

As you enter, a pair of red, glowing eyes look up
balefully at you from just behind the cave entrance:
Shevala has a guardian; a hideously deformed Goblin.
Unfortunately for you, the vicious little wretch carries
a poisoned dagger, like his mistress, and he’s wiry and
tougher than most Goblins. You will have to fight the
Goblin first, then the witch. If you are struck by either,
roll one dice. If you roll 4 or less, you must lose 1
additional staMINA point, thanks to the poison.

SKILL STAMINA
GOBLIN 6 6
SHEVALA 9 11

If you reduce Shevala to 2 sTAMINA points or less
without killing her outright, turn to 6. If you kill her,
turn to 64.

364

3604

You open the doors of the ornately decorated black
coach. The inside is black and red silk upholstery, and
behind the seating in a recess is a coffin containing a
thin film of black soil. You climb in, intending to pull
out the coffin and smash it; destroying the Vampire's
coffin will surely weaken him! As you do, however,
the silk sheets, curtains and pillows seem to come
alive. They turn into hideous great slabs of rotting
flesh, and clawed hands clutch at you from the bizarre
Zombie-Coach! You must subtract 1 from your Attack
Strength fighting it, for you are trapped in an enclosed
space.

ZOMBIE COACH SKILL 7 STAMINA 10

If you win, the coach falls apart round you. Test your
Luck. If you are Lucky, you escape in time. If you are
Unlucky, the roof panelling collapses on to your head
and you must lose 1 sTAMINA point. But you drag the
coffin out and smash it. Gain 3 Blood Points! Now
you should explore an area you haven't visited yet.
Will you: r

Open the pair of doors? Turn to 233
Open the single door? Turn to 22
Leave and make for the mansion

house itself? Turn to 46

365

365

The Count has spent some time enhancing his strength,
and he is the most powerful enemy you will ever have
encountered. He has existed for many years and his
strength and powers of recuperation are far beyond
those of any mortal. Divide your Blood Points score by
five, rounding any fractions up (so, if you have 21
Blood Points, the figure will be 5). You may subtract
this figure from the Count’s sTAMINA score which is
given below. If you have the sword Imperator and if
your FAITH score is 8 or 9, you may subtract 1 point
from the Count’s skiLt; if your FAITH is to or higher,
you may subtract 2 from his skILt. Finally, you may
add 1 point to your Current LUCK score for possessing
each of the following: the History of Mortvania, Se-
warth’s Codex and a sheaf of letters from Harquay
(you've picked up some helpful tips on fighting Vam-
pires from your casual reading!). If you have no magic
sword, you will automatically lose this fight. Now,
pray to the forces of good on Titan, and do the best
you can! The Count fights with his fists, which strike
you with the force of hammers.

REINER HEYDRICH SKILL 15 STAMINA 30

When the Count’s sTAMINA is reduced to 10 points or
less, he will change his fighting tactics: he will try to
attack you with his fangs. You may subtract 2 from his
Attack Strength but, if he bites you, roll one dice. If
you roll a 5, he will inflict twice the normal damage
on you (you must lose 4 STAMINA points). If you roll
a 6, he has gashed your throat badly and you will
die after four more Attack Rounds, unless you can

366-367

overcome him and pause to staunch the bleeding! If
you reduce the Count’s sTAMINA to 4 points or less
without killing him outright, turn to g. If you kill the
Count outright, turn to 382.

366
The sword rejects you! Your hands burn from the pain
of the sword’s magical attack on you; deduct 2 points
from your STAMINA. The knight’s ghost ushers you
out of the tomb, and you make for the door half-way
along the passage beyond the tombs, and open it.
Turn to 393.

367
As you lead Sandar back to the hamlet, he suddenly
remembers something. He recalls hearing the Vampire
talking to a servant, and he overheard them referring
to a particular place. ‘It was a mountain or a hill, I
think ... Crab Peak, that was it! The dark man was
very excited about that. He said something like, “In
time. We must have it back in time.” I suppose he
meant something he intends to use for some evil
purpose or other.’ Sandar rubs his forehead and sud-
denly looks desperately tired. You practically have to
carry him the last few paces to the outskirts of the
hamlet. You prevail on the charity of the folk here to
look after him, and set off on your way. If you want
to continue north-eastwards to Heydrich’s mansion
house, turn to 8g. If you want to go to Crab Peak, do
you know where it is? If you do, it’s because you have
a book that tells you. You should know how many
pages that book has; double the number of pages, then

368-370

turn to the paragraph with the same number. If you
want to go to Crab Peak and don’t know where it is,
you can do some asking around, but that is likely to
take you some time. If you decide to do this anyway,
turn to 10.

368
Have you found a ring set with moonstones? If you
have, you know how many stones there are in the
ring. Multiply that number by 30, then turn to the
paragraph with the same number. If you haven't found
this ring, turn to 142.

369

In the morning, when you arrive at Harquar’s house,
you find it surrounded by excited villagers and a
detachment of the town guard. The sage has been
murdered, and there is no way you are going to get
into the house. Wild tales of flying monsters that
shattered the bedroom window high above you are
rife; but Grundar, the sage’s bodyguard, hasn’t been
able to give any coherent account of what happened
to his master. You can now buy some equipment if
you want to (turn to 283); alternatively, you can leave
by heading north-eastwards (turn to 198) or you can
set out for some other area (turn to 304).

370
Making your way as quietly as you can along the next
passage, you find a stone door flush with the end of it.
You push the door open; turn to 234. -

371-373

374
The black coach vanishes in the darkness. Somehow
you have to pursue it in order to find out where the
creature which has brought death and mayhem to the
monks has gone. If you want to make one final check
inside the monastery before giving chase, turn to 346.
If you prefer to pursue the coach at once, do you have
at least 8 Gold Pieces? If you have, turn to 276. If you
do not have this much, turn to 203.

372

The undead monster collapses to the ground ~— and,
even as you watch, it begins to get back to its knees! It
can be destroyed permanently by one of two things
only: Oil of Disenchantment or Blackfire. If you have
either of these, you know the numbers associated with
them. Divide the number etched on the flask of magical
oil by two, and turn to the paragraph with that number,
or turn to the paragraph with the same number as that
on the label on the vial of Blackfire. If you have neither
of these items, you cannot overcome this monstrous
guardian and you are forced to run while the horror is
still getting back to its feet (but make a note of the fact
that, if you find either of these items, you can return to
fight the Grand Revenant again by turning to 274). You
slam the door shut behind you. If you now want to
make for the southern passage, turn to 7. If you want to
return to the entrance hall, turn to 271.

373
You spend quite a bit of time asking around in the

taverns of Farleigh, where the merchants and travellers

374-375

are more concerned with enjoying themselves than
with talking about sages; lose 1 Blood Point. Eventu-
ally, however, a young apprentice declares that it must
be Harquar whom you are seeking, and that he can be
found in the Golden Goose. You make for the tavern;
turn to 123.

374
Discretion was certainly the better part of valour this

time! The cave is suddenly filled with sheets of flame
as the sparks ignite the gas you could smell. Then all
is quiet again, but the spark-creature is still bobbing
around in the cave. You decide to move forward and
confront it. Turn to 204.

375
You push open the door to an extensive library which

lies below the great dome of the monastery. A spiral
staircase leads up to a balcony running round the
dome, and there are endless bookshelves and racks of
musty, dusty old documents bound up with ribbon
and waxed string. If you want to explore the library
for any clues you might find, turn to 337. If you want
to climb up to the dome, tum to 2148. If you decide
that exploring here will take up too much time, you
can leave and explore elsewhere in the east wing (turn
to 265) or make for the west wing of the monastery
(turn to 197).

376-379

376

There is no sign of any black coach in the gloomy
stables — which is something of a relief. You poke idly
around in some half-rotted hay and are about to leave
when a sickly stench assails your nostrils. Looking
back, you see a rotting corpse shambling towards you.
Half of its gangrenous flesh has already peeled away
from its bones, but it reaches out with filth-encrusted
bony hands to strangle the life out of you! It is not
moving swiftly, though, and you can run away from
the house and avoid combat if you wish to do so; if
you do this, turn to 8g. If you stay and fight the
monster, turn to 127.

377
If your FAITH score is 7 or higher, turn to 73. If it is 6

or less, turn to 206.

378

Only rank grass and some straggling shrubs and bushes
grow in the grounds of the mansion house. The thick
pall of mist hangs everywhere, making it difficult to
see even your feet in front of you. If you have Lung
Rot, the mist chokes you; lose 2 sTAMINA points.
There are some iron railings at the back of the mansion
house which prevent you entering a gravelled rear
courtyard. All you can do is go to the front door (turn
to 46) or try to climb over the railings and explore the
courtyard at the back (turn to 62).

379
By the time you wake up it is almost dark! The

Vampire will surely be up and about again soon. You

380-381

pick up all your equipment and make for the stables. If
you have a ring with gems in it, multiply the number
of gems by 20, then turn to the paragraph with that
number. If you don’t have any such ring, turn to 108.

380
The Ghouls are destroyed — but now you have to race
a horde of swarming Zombies! Though they are not
skilful, there are so many of them that they may wear
you down by sheer force of numbers!

ZOMBIE PACK SKILL 7 STAMINA 16

If you win, gain 1 Luck point and 1 FAITH point.
Now, will you:

Go through the azure-lit archway? Turn to 12
Open the right-hand door to the
south? Turn to 97
Open the left-hand door to the
south? Turn to 152
381

You hear a groaning sound coming from behind the
door to the south. Just as you are wondering whether
it’s a good idea or not to open it and find out what is

382-383

happening, the door is flung open and a young monk
with wild, staring eyes and his mouth frozen in a
scream comes hurtling through the doorway. He flees
for the main doors before you can stop him. The door
that has just been opened leads into a long passageway
with many monks’ cells off it, and the doors of some
are open. A trail of blood leads into the distance. If
you want to follow this, turn to 23. If you decide not
to do so, but to explore elsewhere, turn to 354.

Dreadful wailing and sounds of lamentation come
from one of the archways as you strike down the
Vampire at last. Racing out of the darkness comes a
long-haired, pale woman: Reiner’s sister Katarina, a
Vampire herself! You may perform one action \for
example, drinking a potion or liqueur) before she gets
to you, then you have to fight for your life against her
rage and fury!

KATARINA HEYDRICH — skILLQ = STAMINAQ

If you win, turn to 400.

383
The witches attack you at once. Turn to 267.

384-385

384

You drag the protesting landlord from his bed and
demand to be told all he knows about the scarred man
who came offering money to have you killed. The
landlord obviously knew all about it, because he now
looks shifty and guilty. He is afraid of you and begins
to blurt out the whole story. He says that the man
came from the east — which is the direction in which
Mortus Mansion lies. When you point that out to him,
he shudders and says that everyone is very afraid to
stray into the area. ‘Visitors come from there only
rarely, and then it is generally an eccentric old man,
who comes to buy food in the village. ‘Very tall, he is,
with long grey hair and funny eyeglasses. Calls himself
Doktor Verruckte.’ The description doesn’t sound much
like the Count; it may well be interesting to find this
man ... You protest that a guest at the inn ought to
be able to sleep in peace. The landlord guiltily offers
you food and provisions to make up for the inconven-
ience. You can fill your backpack without charge, and
you also get back the Gold Piece you paid him. Gain 1
LUCK point! Now you are shown to another room and
settle to sleep. Turn to 333.

385
You replace the book and push the chest back under the
bed, then you hurriedly sit down in the one uncomfort-
able chair here. When Endrell reaches the open door, he
hesitates then advances into the room, looking angrily at
you, a thick staff in his hands. You plead that you cannot
sleep and beg an extra blanket to stave off the cold.
Endrell seems to be placated and gruffly arranges for a

386-387

junior monk to find extra bedding. You are escorted back
to your room and are given a herbal nightcap to help you
sleep. You can tell that Endrell has stationed a monk out-
side your door to stop any further nocturnal snooping.
Eventually you get back to sleep. Test your Luck. If you
are Lucky, turn to 326. If you are Unlucky, turn to go.

386
Just too late, you see the crone raise the flask to her
lips! Add 6 points to her sTAMINA score; she has
drunk a Potion of Stamina that she had hidden on
her body! She fights with renewed fury, and this time
it is a fight to the death. If you win, turn to 64.

387

All you can do is to travel out of your way until you
find a scholar who may know. This means a long
detour to Arkleton, where you spend days trying to
find help. You have to eat a total of 8 meals during
this time (but you can buy food here; 1 Gold Piece
buys enough for 2 meals). Finally you find a scholar
who tells you where you could search: you should
make for the village of Sharnek, beyond the northern
Great Wall. However, the delay means that you must
lose 10 Blood Points! Turn to 19.

388-389

388

As you enter, a smoky form begins to materialize
above the coffin. The figure is small, no bigger than
stunted goblin, which it vaguely resembles. It wields
sharp brass knives in its claws and hisses with hatred
at you. Small wings unfold on its back and it flies at
you and rakes you with the envenomed knives it
carries!

DEATH IMP SKILL 9 STAMINA 6

If you win, but the Death Imp struck you during your
fight, roll three dice. If the total is the same as, or
higher than, your Current sTAMINA score, you must
lose more STAMINA because of the effects of the
poison. Roll one further dice and add 1 to the number
rolled; this is the number of additional sTAMINA points
you must lose. If you are still alive, you can smash the
coffin here. Gain 4 Blood Points! Now you can open
the west door in the corridor outside (turn to 35) or
the door at the end of the corridor (turn to 208);
alternatively, if you think it is time to leave the house,
turn to 300.

389
You do not notice the young man’s upwards glance
until it is too late. A mass of metal and undead flesh
slams into you, knocking you off your feet, as the
monster hurls itself downstairs at you. The gruesome
thing looks as if someone has fused metal into the
body of a Ghoul to toughen it — which is exactly what
has happened. Deduct 1 point from your sTAMINA for
being knocked down, and you must subtract 2 from

390-391

your Attack Strength in the first Attack Round while
you regain your feet and balance. Fortunately, this
Ghoul strikes with long, metal claws and does not
paralyse, as Ghouls often do. Nevertheless it is very

strong and difficult to defeat!
STEEL GHOUL SKILL 9 STAMINA 12

If you win, turn to 25.

390
The horror is engulfed in flame; it screams in a night-
marish, piercing voice which seems to fill the entire
cavern. Unfortunately, even the magic of Blackfire
doesn’t kill it outright. It lumbers towards you, an
undead fireball, its superheated iron claws reaching out
for you! Turn to 121.

391
A wise choice indeed, for the woman is Katarina, the
Count’s evil sister, as much a Vampire as he is! She
attacks at once with long, clawed nails and fangs.

KATARINA HEYDRICH SKILLQ STAMINAQ

392

If you win, turn to 44, but you may subtract 1 from
the skiLt and 4 from the stAMINA of the Count given
in that paragraph.

392

Harquar is dead. You are left in the room with a
decomposing puddle of slimy jelly and the corpse of
the fat sage; it’s not a pleasant sight. Then the sage’s
bodyguard comes into the room with his master’s
tankard of midnight cocoa; he takes one look at you
with your drawn sword, and his dead master. The jelly
doesn’t really register in the servant's mind, not surpris-
ingly when you see his heavy forehead and close-set
eyes. He draws a sword and sets about you, despite
your protests.

BODYGUARD SKILL 9 STAMINA 13

If you win, you have no time to search the place. No
one’s going to believe your story about a flying jelly,
especially as the thing has now melted into a thick pile
of slime, and you have just killed Harquar’s bodyguard.

393-394

You have to get out of town. You can leave, going
north-eastwards (turn to 198) or set off for some other
destination (turn to 304).

393
The door here opens readily and a chill draught of air

wafts up to you from some depth far below. Your
breath frosts on the air, it is so cold. You are wondering
whether to go on this way when you are suddenly
hammered on the back by what feels like a solid wall —
which it is, for the wall opposite the door has suddenly
shot forward and thrown you into the darkness! You
must lose 1 STAMINA point for the buffeting. The
door behind you slams shut and, as you try to force it
open, you realize that the wall opposite is now flush
with the door, sealing you in. Turn to 71.

394
There isn’t much cover for keeping watch on the inn,

so you have to hide yourself as best you can in a
roadside gully. However, you are desperately tired
from riding through the night, and you soon fall
asleep. You wake up later, stiff and uncomfortable;
deduct 1 point from your sTAMINA, and you must
now eat a meal. Turn to 379.

395

395
This powerful potion has an entirely unpredictable effect.

Made from the vital energies of living creatures and the
essence of certain of the undead, it may have a positive or
a negative effect on you. Roll one dice — but, before you
do so, you can decide how many Luck points (if any) you
wish to spend. Every Luck point you sacrifice adds 1 to
the number rolled, thus increasing final total; but you
cannot spend more than 2 points of Luck in this way.
Make your decision before you roll the dice, then consult
the table below to see what has happened to you.

Total Effect
1 Lose 2 SKILL points
2 Lose 1 SKILL point
3-4 You feel mildly sick. Lose 1 sTAMINA
point
5 You are strengthened. Add 1 point to
both Current and Initial sTAMINA
0-7 You are strengthened! Add 1 point to

your skILL (but this cannot exceed
12) and add 1 point to both your
Current and Initial sTAMINA

8 You feel like a new person! Add 2 points
to your SKILL, Current and Initial
STAMINA scores. SKILL cannot exceed
13 or Initial STAMINA 25 because of
these gains

If you want to drink the alleged sxi.t restorative,
having not already done so, turn to 241. Otherwise,
you leave for the passage outside the Doktor’s rooms
to explore elsewhere. Turn to 7.

396-397

396
You must fight the wolves one at a time.
SKILL STAMINA
First WOLF 6 7
Second WOLF 6 7

If you win, the man is deeply grateful to you. He tells
you that he is a merchant, making for the market
village of Farleigh, which lies to the north-east along
the road. ‘I brought a bodyguard with me,’ he says
sadly, looking at the dead warrior. ‘We left the road
when we saw that mist. Didn’t like the look of it at
all.’ Roban, as he introduces himself, asks you if you
will help him bury the man and then accompany him
to Farleigh. He says he will pay you for your protec-
tion when he arrives at the village. If you are prepared
to help him bury his friend, this takes time. You will
lose 1 Blood Point, but you will gain 1 FAITH point
for this action. Then you set off once more, with
Roban in tow. Turn to 148.

397
Your attack is useless. Only magical weapons can

harm the Vampire. Your arrow drops at his feet; he
hurls a volley of magical darts at you and they bum
their way into your flesh; deduct 3 points from your
STAMINA. The pain jolts you into rushing at him; turn
to 27%.

398-399

398

Work out Attack Strengths for yourself and the witch
(she has a skILL of 10). If you have the higher Attack
Strength, you fling the acid at her and she reels back,
screaming with pain. She loses 3 sTAMINA points
(remember to subtract this from her total when you
fight her). Your acid is now used up. You can fire
your longbow at her, if you have one (turn to 305),
or jump the fissure and attack her with your sword
(turn to 31).

399
You go to the middle of the east—west corridor in the

east wing of Mortus Mansion to take your bearings.
You are standing facing east. There is a door in the
north wall in front of you and another behind you;
there are two doors facing them in the south wall too.
At its eastern end, the passage turns south. At its
western end, a door returns you to the hallway at the
main entrance. You should explore an area you have
not entered before. Will you:

Open the north door behind you? Turn to 88
Open the north door in front of

you? Turn to 65
Open the south door behind you? turn to 139
Open the south door in front of

you? Turn to 340
Go to the end of the passage and

then turn south?

Go back to the main entrance hall?

Turn to 182
Turn to 271

400

400
You may have killed the Vampire brother and sister, but
you still have to destroy them! Glancing at the crystal
heart, you see that it will fit into the amulet set round
Reiner’s neck. You grind the gem into the metal of the
amulet and, as you force it against the silver, it cracks
into a shower of fragments. For the briefest of seconds,
the Vampire's terrible eyes open wide, a frozen scream
of fear on his face. A last trickle of blooa dribbles from
the side of his mouth, and his head lolls to one side
like a rag doll’s. You gather up the coffins you find in
secret chambers hidden behind concealed doors inside
the cave and build a funeral pyre for the Vampires, but
you dare not set it alight until you have found a
narrow set of steep stone stairs behind a secret door in
the room behind the left-hand archway. Then you
begin your ascent, leaving the blazing corpses behind
you.

After an interminable length of time spent staggering
up the steps, you emerge into a small cave with a
narrow entrance that leads to a valley. As you totter
out into the fresh air, a shepherd runs away, screaming,
claiming that a terrible Demon has risen from the
depths! If you could see yourself — streaked with
smoke, bloodied and wounded, wild-eyed — you might
not think his words so silly. And if you had not
succeeded in your quest at last, he would have been
right. You have elimated one of Titan’s most ancient
evils, and you are ready to take your place among the
ranks of its legendary heroes!

Also in Fighting Fantasy

MAGEHUNTER
Steve Jackson and Ian Livingstone

YOU are a Magehunter, tracking down
evil-doers and bringing them to
justice. Your trusty flintlock pistol and
fine steel broadsword have seen many
fights, and you have the knowledge,
skill and equipment to capture the
craftiest sorcerer. But disaster strikes.
Magic drags you far from your
familiar world, to a land of treasures,
traps and treachery. Here you have
only your wits to save you from a
painful death - and worse, you must
pursue and defeat the wiliest wizard
of them all.

Strange tales and bizarre transforma-
tions must all be endured if you are to
win through, defeat the enemy and
return to the land of your birth.

KNIGHTS OF Doom
Steve Jackson and Ian Livingstone

For years the brave Knights Templar of
the Demonkeep have kept the peace in
Ruddlestone. But now an ancient evil
has reawakened in the land: the
sorcerer Belgaroth has returned from
the dead and will use his powers to
bring chaos and terror to this peaceful
kingdom.

To ensure his plans succeed, the evil
sorcerer has enlisted the services of the
Knights of Doom. One heroic knight —
YOU! — must creep through a land
plunged into war, penetrate the enemy
lines and overcome the deadliest foe of

them all!

DEATHMOOR
Steve Jackson and Ian Livingstone

The request, brought by carrier pigeon,
is clear. An experienced adventurer is
desperately needed in the distant city
of Arion for a mission of deadly
importance — an adventurer like YOU.
When you arrive at the court of King
Jonthane, the urgency of the mission
becomes clear. Telessa, the beautiful
Princess Royal, is missing, believed
kidnapped. She must be rescued, and
she must be rescued fast.

Unfortunately, in his haste, King
Jonthane has already given the quest
to another, your deadly rival Fang-zen
of Jitar! You know that the only person
suitable for this heroic task is you. Can
you prove that you are the one to
rescue the princess - and more
importantly find her, wherever she
may be held - before she can be
harmed? Hurry, for time is running
out!

