CURSE OL VII72 MUM

Helping an eccentric archaeologist unearth an ancien
tomb in the Desert of Skulls seems like an easy task for
heroic adventurer like YOU. But when that tomb turm

out to belong to Akharis — a legendary ruler from a
previous age — and when you discover some of his
followers are trying to return the evil pharaoh to lif
YOU must act quickly.

of the Muinnay! It twill take a real “i to defeat
and win the treasure. Dare YOU take on the challe

7
~~

il i

1840"468U;,

Wizard Books UK £4.99
Canada $10.00

Tae Glee ,

INOLSONIAI NVI
NOSNOVI JAILS

IAN LIVINGSTONE

Anh AKO?
HOVI LL LV 1

AT Dicnting Fantasy Camebohe
In which YOU are the kero

TARIOCK

OF FIRE TOP

VOUNS@ I
By 7

ner

_= = 2

4 CLT YGF CC > vy . +, aad RST
ruvevis (CRYPT | Bic | *QRee

| ‘
=
——

Som
em Se
Pat OS
Kis

et I =

4

| SNOW WITCH —

www.fightingfantasy.com
Visit the Fighting Fantasy website for...

The Adventurers’ Guild,
the Official Fighting Fantasy Club!

Latest news on
Fighting Fantasy Gamebooks and events

The Fighting Fantasy Forum

Competitions and games

WIZARD BOOKS

CURSE OF THE MUMMY

Jerran Farr, renowned archaeologist, is looking for a hired help
for an expedition to the Desert of Skulls, where he plans to
excavate the tomb of an ancient pharaoh. It seems a nice, easy
and, above all, safe task for an adventurer like YOU. But when
that tomb turns out to belong to Akharis, legendary ruler from a
previous age, and when a crazed cult of his followers is trying to
return the evil pharaoh to life, matters are guaranteed to turn
deadly serious. Soon you will learn the true meaning of the Curse
of the Mummy! It will take a real hero to defeat Akharis and win
the treasure from the tomb. Are YOU that hero?

Two dice, a pencil and an eraser are all you need to embark on
this deadly adventure which comes complete with its own
combat system and a score sheet to record your progress.
Innumerable dangers lie ahead and your success is anything but
certain. It’s up to YOU to decide which route to follow, which
dangers to risk and which foes to fight! Can YOU defeat the
Curse of Akharis?

The Fighting Fantasy Gamebooks

The Warlock of Firetop Mountain
The Citadel of Chaos

Deathtrap Dungeon

Creature of Havoc

City of Thieves

Crypt of the Sorcerer

House of Hell

Forest of Doom

Sorcery! 1: The Shamutanti Hills
Caverns of the Snow Witch
Sorcery! 2: Kharé — Cityport of Traps
Trial of Champions

Sorcery! 3: The Seven Serpents
Armies of Death

Sorcery! 4: The Crown of Kings
Return to Firetop Mountain
Island of the Lizard King
Appointment with FE.A.R.
Temple of Terror

Legend of Zagor

Eye of the Dragon

Starship Traveller

Freeway Fighter

Talisman of Death

Sword of the Samurai
Bloodbones

Curse of the Mummy

SWS PNATP YON DP

Se SS MOS Se oo oe ao RSS
NAM PWN RFP SNS RANDY PWN FO

STEVE JACKSON ay» IAN LIVINGSTONE

CURSE Sep

VV

%; Maro S
ha
yy

Maai2| _\

Yi

BY JONATHAN GREEN
ILLUSTRATED BY MARTIN McKENNA

%

u!

Wizard Books
This edition published in the UK in 2007 by Wizard Books,
an imprint of Icon Books Ltd., The Old Dairy,
Brook Road, Thriplow, Cambridge SG8 7RG
email: wizard@iconbooks.co.uk
www.iconbooks.co.uk/ wizard

First published by the Penguin Group in 1995

Sold in the UK, Europe, South Africa and Asia by
Faber and Faber Ltd., 3 Queen Square, London WC1N 3AU
or their agents

Distributed in the UK, Europe, South Africa and Asia by
TBS Ltd., Frating Distribution Centre, Colchester Road,
Frating Green, Colchester CO7 7DW

Published in Australia in 2007 by Allen & Unwin Pty. Ltd.,
PO Box 8500, 83 Alexander Street, Crows Nest, NSW 2065

Distributed in Canada by Penguin Books Canada,
90 Eglinton Avenue East, Suite 700, Toronto, Ontario M4P 2Y3

ISBN-10: 1-84046-802-5
ISBN-13: 978-1840468-02-1

Text copyright © 1995 Steve Jackson and Ian Livingstone
Illustrations copyright © 1995 Martin McKenna
Map copyright © Jonathan Green

The authors and artist have asserted their moral rights

Fighting Fantasy is a trademark owned by Steve Jackson
and Ian Livingstone, all rights reserved.

No part of this book may be reproduced in any form, or by any
means, without prior permission in writing from the publisher.

Printed and bound in the UK by Cox & Wyman Ltd., Reading

CONTENTS

INTRODUCTION
7

ADVENTURE SHEET
16

BACKGROUND
18

CURSE OF THE MUMMY
25

ahh oe Be
4 %,

Pz - ry

.NORTH Ae Ui) Ee Ul

e a .

wt

<a
Atty

tn, THE * Le
_ WESTERN
g ., OCEAN

“i we

SA _|

will

WW.

| a {l\ wa

i]
| TREAST ail |

we he,

Cae so UTH M4

we,

il

ae

|

(=) mil |

INTRODUCTION

‘ou are about to embark on a perilous journey that will
ake you from Rimon, the capital of the Pirate Coast,
rough the arid wilderness beyond, up to the very fringes
2¢ the Desert of Skulls itself. Before you launch into your
sdventure, you must first determine your strengths and
weaknesses. You use dice to work out your initial scores.
On pages 16-17 is an Adventure Sheet, which you may use
=» record the details of your adventure. On it you will find
>oxes for recording your SKILL, STAMINA and LUCK scores.
You are advised either to mark them in pencil or make
=eotocopies of the blank sheet for use in future adventures.

Skill, Stamina and Luck
Toe determine your Initial SKILL, STAMINA and LUCK scores:

* Roll one die. Add 6 to this number and enter this total in
the SKILL box on the Adventure Sheet.

® Roll two dice. Add 12 to the number rolled and enter this
total in the STAMINA box.

* Roll one die. Add 6 to this number and enter this total in

the LUCK box.

«iii reflects your expertise in combat, your dexterity and
z=ility; the higher the better. sTAMINA represents your
s=ength; the higher it is, the longer you will survive. Your
LUCK score indicates how lucky a person you are.

SKILL, STAMINA and LUCK scores change constantly during
an adventure, so keep an eraser handy. You must keep an
accurate record of these scores, but never rub out your
Initial scores. Although you may receive additional SKILL,
STAMINA and LUCK points, their totals may never exceed
your Initial scores, except on very rare occasions when the
text specifically tells you so.

Battles

During your adventure you will often encounter hostile
creatures which will attack you, and you yourself may
choose to draw your sword against an enemy you chance
across. In some situations you may be given special options,
allowing you to deal with the encounter in an unusual
manner, but in most cases you will have to resolve battles
as described below.

Enter your opponent’s SKILL and STAMINA scores in the
first empty Encounter Box on your Adventure Sheet. You
should also make a note of any special abilities or instruc-
tions which are unique to that particular opponent. Then
follow this sequence:

1. Roll two dice for your opponent. Add its SKILL score to
the total rolled. This total is its Attack Strength.

2. Roll two dice for yourself, then add your current SKILL
score. This total is your Attack Strength.

:. If your Attack Strength is higher than your opponent's,
you have wounded it: proceed to step 4. If the oppo-
nent’s Attack Strength is higher than yours, it has
svounded you: proceed to step 5. If both Attack Strength
cotals are the same, you have avoided or parried each
other’s blows — start a new Attack Round from step 1,
zbove.

2 You have wounded your opponent, so subtract 2 points
irom its STAMINA score. You may use LUCK here to do
additional damage (see ‘Using Luck in Battles’ below).
Proceed to step 6.

= Your opponent has wounded you, so subtract 2 points
om your STAMINA score. You may use LUCK to mini-
mize the damage (see ‘Using Luck in Battles’ below).
Proceed to step 6.

1 Begin the next Attack Round, starting again at step I.
This sequence continues until the STAMINA score of
2ther you or your opponent reaches zero, which means
zzath. If your opponent dies you are free to continue
*ith your adventure. If you die you must start all over
2<ain by creating a new character.

Fighting More Than One Opponent

Set<times you will find yourself under attack from more
‘fuxm one person or creature in combat. Sometimes you will
wz: them as a single opponent; sometimes you will be
able to fight each in turn; at other times you will have to
fight them all at once! If they are treated as a single oppo-
nent, the combat is resolved normally. When you are
instructed to fight your opponents one at a time, the
combat is again resolved normally — except that when you
defeat an enemy the next one steps forward to fight you! If
you find yourself under attack from more than one oppo-
nent at the same time, each adversary will make a separate
attack on you in the course of each Attack Round, but you
can choose which one to fight. Attack your chosen target as
in normal battle. Against any additional opponents you
roll the dice for your Attack Strength in the normal way; if
your Attack Strength is greater than your opponent's, you
will not inflict a wound. Just regard this as though you
have parried an incoming blow. However, if your Attack
Strength is lower than your opponent's you will have been
wounded in the normal way. Of course, you will have to
settle the outcome of each additional adversary separately.

Luck

In certain paragraphs you will be told to Test your Luck,
and you will then find out the consequences of being
Lucky or Unlucky. At various times during your adventure
you may use LUCK to make an outcome more favourable
to you. But beware! Using LUCK is a risky business and, if
you are Unlucky, the results could be disastrous.

The way you Test your Luck is as follows:

Io

Roll two dice. If the number rolled is less than or equal to
your current LUCK score, you have been Lucky. If the
number rolled is higher than your current LUCK score, you
have been Unlucky and will be penalised.

Each time you Test your Luck, you must subtract one point
from your current LUCK score. So the more you rely on
LUCK, the more risky this procedure becomes.

Using Luck in Battles

In battles, you always have the option of using your LUCK,
either to inflict a more serious wound on an opponent or
to minimize the effects of a wound you have just received.

If you have just wounded an opponent: you may Test your
Luck as described above. If you are Lucky, subtract an extra
2 points from your opponent’s STAMINA score (ie. 4
instead of 2 normally). But if you are Unlucky, your blow
only scratches your opponent and you deduct only 1 point
irom your opponent’s STAMINA (instead of scoring the
normal 2 points of damage, you now score only 1).

If the opponent has just wounded you: you can Test your
Luck to try to minimize the wound. If you are Lucky, your
opponent's blow only grazes you; deduct only 1 point from
your STAMINA. If you are Unlucky, your wound is serious
and you must deduct 1 extra STAMINA point (Le. a total of
3 points from your own STAMINA).

Remember: you must subtract 1 point from your LUCK
score each time you Test your Luck.

Il

More About Your Attributes
Skill

Your SKILL score will not change much during the course
of your adventure. Occasionally a paragraph may give
instructions to increase or decrease your SKILL score, but it
may not exceed its Initial value unless you are specifically
instructed to the contrary.

At various times during your adventure you will be told to
Test your Skill. The procedure for this is exactly the same as
that for Testing your Luck: roll two dice. If the number
rolled is less than or equal to your current score, you have
succeeded in your test and the result will go in your
favour. If the number rolled is higher than your current
SKILL score, you have failed the test and will have to suffer
the consequences. However, unlike Testing your Luck, do
not subtract 1 point from your SKILL each time you Test
your Skill.

Stamina and Provisions

Your STAMINA score will change a lot during the adven-
ture. It will drop as a result of wounds received through
combat, or by falling foul of traps and pitfalls; and it will
also drop after you perform any particularly arduous task.
If your STAMINA score ever falls to zero or below, you have
been killed and should stop reading the book immediately.
Brave adventurers who wish to pursue their quest must
roll up a new character and start all over again.

Iz

You can restore lost STAMINA by eating meals or
Provisions. You start the game without any Provisions, but
during your adventure you will be able to obtain meals.
You must keep track of how many meals’ worth of
Provisions you have remaining by filling in the details in
the Provisions box on your Adventure Sheet. Each time you
eat a meal you may restore up to 4 points of STAMINA, but
remember to deduct 1 meal from your Provisions box. You
may rest and eat Provisions at any time except when
engaged in battle.

Luck

Additions to your LUCK score may be awarded in the
adventure when you have been particularly Lucky or
created your own Luck by some action. Details are given,
where appropriate, in the paragraphs of the book. Remem-
ber that, as with SKILL and STAMINA, your LUCK score may
not exceed its Initial value unless specifically instructed on

a page.

Poison

You have spent many years adventuring in the dangerous
lands of southern Allansia. As a result, you have been
exposed to various poisons on many occasions and, in
defence, your body has built up some immunity to their
effects. Throughout your latest adventure you will no
doubt be exposed to the bites and stings of venomous crea-
tures, or you will encounter enemies who have no qualms

13

about using poisoned weapons against you. Although you
can recover STAMINA lost to the effects of poison (as
explained above), the build-up of toxins in your body may
still prove fatal. Whenever you are told to increase your
POISON score, record it carefully on your Adventure Sheet.
You begin your adventure with a poison score of Zero.
Should your POISON total ever equal or exceed 18, the tox-
ins coursing through your bloodstream will kill you and
your adventure will end there and then. The only way to
reduce your POISON score is by the use of certain potions
and charms, or in certain exceptional circumstances.

Equipment

You have begun your adventure with very little equipment
indeed: just a sword, a backpack to hold your Provisions
and treasure, and 5 Gold Pieces. To begin with, you do not
have a lantern or any Provisions. Note down the Gold
Pieces in the appropriate box on your Adventure Sheet;
everything else goes in the Equipment box, as will any other
useful items you may find or purchase on your travels.

Alternative Dice

If you do not have a pair of dice handy, dice rolls are print-
ed throughout the book at the bottom of the pages.
Flicking rapidly throughout the book and stopping on a
page will give you a random dice roll. If you need to ‘roll’
only one die, read only the first printed die; if two, total the
two dice symbols.

14

a

_—

|
|
|
|

ADVEN TURE SHEET 4 MONSTER ENCOUNTER BOXES
SKILL | (STAMINA | {LUCK | |sew- > [Skill= Skill =
Initial Initial j Jnitial a - } Stamina = ee =
| Skill = Stamina= | 1 races
' } t
| ! ! ! ! ! |
: ‘ i , | ' ‘ ‘
{PoIsoN | { PROVISIONS (GOLD PIECE | p Still - | | Skill = | [Seill=
| eo = Stamina = | Stamina =
' ' } } ' }
t ' ‘ t ' ;
EQUIPMENT AND TREASURE Sy 4 Sell = | Skill = . Skill = | :
pSeemina = Stamina = | { Stamina =
| | ! ' '
| ! ! !
a | |
| NOTES _ ia | | See = {Skill = | | Skill = te
pSeemina = { Stamina = | Stamina =
! t
|

_———

ee

eg

a

at

BACKGROUND

Facing its twin, Halak, on the other side of the mouth
of the Bay of Elkor, Rimon is the capital of the Pirate
Coast. With their ramshackle mazes of streets and
twisting alley-ways, the two ancient towns, perched
on the steeply sloping sides of twin mountain peaks,
are a haven for buctaneers and renegades: even the
feared pirate captain Garius of Halak has his secret
hideout somewhere along the coast. It was a crew of
these scurvy pirates who attacked the merchantman
on which you had gained passage, travelling north
from Kaynlesh-Ma and making for Port Blacksand.
Your vessel was sunk and all on board were left to the
mercy of the sea.

After several days you were washed ashore — as far as
you know, the only survivor of the wreck — with only
your sword and enough money to keep you from
starvation for just a few days. Finding yourself not far
from Rimon, you made your way to the town, hoping
to find work guarding a caravan heading north, but
you missed the last one to leave for several weeks by
only a day. So instead you decided to find gainful
employment that might earn you your passage on
another ship heading for Port Blacksand.

Then you saw a notice nailed to a wall in the Adven-
turer’s Guild. The notice read: ‘Brave warrior required
for dangerous mission into hills around the Desert of

18

Skulls. Great rewards guaranteed. Apply Jerran Farr,
The Monkey’s Paw’. You made some discreet enquiries
about this possible employer and discovered that he is
an archaeologist of some notoriety; he does not enjoy
a very good reputation among the adventuring frater-
nity of Rimon and is considered by most to be no
better than a tomb-robber. However, times are hard,
so you decided you had nothing to lose and made
your way to the Monkey’s Paw, a seedy drinking-
house in one of the poorer parts of Rimon.

Entering the bar, you find the clientele as shady-look-
ing as you would expect, and the landlord looks as if
he would cut your throat as soon as serve you a drink.
You mention Jerran Farr’s name, and with a grunt the
landlord directs you to a man sitting at a table by
himself. Jerran Farr, a moustached man in his mid-
thirties, looks as if he too has known his fair share of
hardship; he is tanned from days of toil in the baking
lands at the edge of the Desert of Skulls and his
sleeveless leather jacket, like the rest of his clothes, is
worn and dusty and he wears a battered wide-brimmed
hat to keep off the sun. Having made your introduc-
tions, you sit down opposite the man.

‘Have you heard of the Curse of Akharis?’ Jerran asks.
You shake your head. ‘Then I will tell you of the
legend. Centuries ago, before the drowning of Atlan-
tis by the gods, the three major continents of Titan —
Allansia, the Old World and Khul — were all joined
together as one massive continent which early records
call Irritaria. At this time, at the southern edge of what
we now know as the Desert of Skulls, there existed a

19

small desert kingdom called Djarat. The people of
Djarat, who worshipped a whole clutch of animal-
headed gods, carried out the practice of mummifying
their dead rulers before burying them in great tombs
in the mountains, along with fabulous riches. Akharis
was the last of the rulers of Djarat to be buried before
the parting of the lands. He favoured Sithera, the
Goddess of Evil, above all the other gods of Djarat
and was the cruellest tyrant the kingdom had ever
known. He demanded human sacrifices for his goddess
and was said to commune with dark spirits and bring
the mummies of his ancestors back to life. When at
last he died, poisoned by one of his enemies, he was
aged one hundred and fifty-six. As he lay, dying,
Akharis called on Sithera, saying that one day he
would return and all would suffer under his curse:
plagues of flies, snakes and scorpions would come
upon the land, the daytime sky would be as black as at
night, and the cities would be swallowed by the
desert. Legend says he was buried, surrounded by
piles of priceless treasures, in one of the most astonish-
ing tombs ever constructed, one which included many
terrible death-traps.’

‘Interesting as all this is, what does it have to do with
you wanting to hire a brave warrior for a dangerous
mission?’ you ask the archaeologist.

‘Let me explain,’ Jerran continues. ‘Five days ago I was
working at a site on the edge of the rocky hills
bordering Rimon when a man staggered into my
camp. He was terribly dehydrated, suffering from sun-
stroke, and he looked as if he had been in a battle. I

20

gave him water and tried to make him as comfortable
as possible. As soon as he had recovered a little, he
told me what had happened to him. He was part of a
group of explorers who had been investigating the
lands at the edge of the desert. He told me that at a
ruined temple by an oasis they uncovered an inscrip-
tion that revealed the location of the lost tomb of
Akharis with all its treasures. They set out to find it at
once, but they had not gone very far when they were
ambushed by a group of people, swathed in red robes
that bore the emblem of a golden cobra. The rest of
his party were either captured or killed and he was left
for dead. When it was safe, he started the difficult
journey back to Rimon to warn the people what was
happening, but he only made it as far as my camp. He
died the next morning.’

Absorbed by Jerran’s tale, you ask, ‘So who were these
red-robed attackers?’

‘Members of the Cult of the Cobra,’ he replies. ‘This
cult was the priesthood that worshipped Sithera in
Djarat and they were Akharis’s most loyal followers. It
has always been their aim to find Akharis’s tomb and
resurrect their long-dead master, so that he could call
down his curse upon the land and reclaim his kingdom.
The secret sect has been revived in the last decade and
it looks as if the Cult of the Cobra have at last found
his tomb and are preparing for their king’s return.
They must be stopped, or all will suffer the Curse of
Akharis. | need one brave warrior to accompany me
and infiltrate the cult without their knowing, to thwart
their evil plans. If you will help me — and should we

21

succeed — the treasures of the tomb will be our
reward.’

‘Of course I will help you carry out your plan,’ you
say. The possible riches to be found in the tomb could
make you wealthy beyond your wildest dreams — but,
more important than that, the cult must be stopped
from bringing such an evil back into the world. There
is no time to lose. You both leave the Monkey’s Paw
immediately to prepare for your quest.

The pair of you have not gone far along a narrow
back street on your way towards the markets of
Rimon when a figure, covered from head to toe in fine
red robes, drops silently from the top of a wall to the
ground in front cf you, and a harsh, hissing voice
behind you says, ‘Not so fast, Jerran Farr.’

Turn to paragraph 1.

22

I-3

1

You spin around, to see two more people dressed in
the same manner as the first, only their eyes visible
between the swathes of red cloth. Their robes bear the
emblem of a rearing golden cobra: they must be
members of Akharis’s evil cult. Each of the cultists is
armed with a long curving sword, and an assortment
of other silent death-weapons hangs from their belts.
‘They must have discovered that the explorer survived
their attack and they followed his trail to my camp,’
Jerran whispers under his breath, ‘and from there they
must have followed me to Rimon. What shall we do?’

Will you:

Draw your sword and run at the

cultists’ leader? Turn to 185
Draw your sword and stand your
ground? Turn to 68
Try to escape? Turn to 259
2

As you run for the exit from the inner sanctum of the
Temple of Sithera, the roof gives way and you are
crushed under tonnes of rubble. Your adventure ends
here.

The treasure snake slumps to the ground, leaving it
safe for you to search its chamber. In fact there is no
gold or gems here — it was all the Scitalis’s illusion.
However, in one corner of the room is a small earthen-
ware pot, decorated all over with hieroglyphs. When you

Ce} Es]

4

translate them with your papyrus scroll, they turn out
to be prayers asking for everlasting life. Taking the lid
off the jar, all you find inside is a bundle of preserving
bandages. You are not sure what it is or what purpose
it serves, but if you want to take the earthenware jar
add it to your Adventure Sheet. Leaving the Scitalis’s
room, will you head along the adjoining passage you
passed earlier, if you have not already done so (turn to
370), or retrace your steps past the Decayer’s room
and follow the new branch (turn to 63)?

4

Suddenly you see that the river ahead disappears
under a rock-face in front of you. You have no choice
but to hold your breath and hope for the best . . .

You come to the surface, gasping for air, and are
surprised to find yourself in a flooded room. Test your
Luck, adding 2 to the dice roll. If you are Unlucky,
your provisions have all been ruined by your river
journey (remove them all from your Adventure Sheet).
You are able to wade towards an archway that leads
out of the chamber, only waist-deep in the water.
Beyond it, you find yourself in an expanse of flooded

5

corridors and passageways and begin to explore them.
Coming to an intersection, you have to choose your
route ahead. Will you go to the left (turn to 48), to the
right (turn to 195), or straight on (turn to 124)?

You have not travelled many kilometres before you
reach the top of a ridge of a line of hills and find
yourself looking out over a wide valley. The land
drops steeply down to the sand-covered valley floor
and there, only a few hundred metres away, lie. the
fallen pillars and broken walls of a temple, half buried
by the desert. At last you have found it! In front of
the temple is a sparkling oasis, surrounded by palm
trees, its clear waters looking very inviting after your
days of hot and dusty travel. Here, you hope, you will
discover the location of Akharis’s tomb. Where will
you make for first: for the oasis (turn to 164) or the
ruins (turn to 346)?

rd Ee]

6—7

6

With a rumbling groan the stone door swings open.
Your light illuminates a small, square chamber which is
empty, except for a low stone altar in front of a life-
size carving of a ram-headed man. Full of curiosity,
you enter, when a voice suddenly speaks to you in a
language you do not understand. ‘Then I grant you
the Wisdom of Khunam,’ the voice concludes. Just like
the rest of the speech, that last sentence was not
spoken in Allansian, but it was comprehensible! You
have been blessed by one of the gods of Djarat. If
anyone, or anything, talks to you in ancient Djaratian,
you will be able to understand the language and
communicate in it. To do this, if you are ever spoken
to in Djaratian, add 30 to the paragraph you are
reading at the time and turn immediately to the new
paragraph. For now, regain 1 LUCK point. There is
nothing more for you at the Shrine of Khunam, god of
knowledge and learning, so you proceed deeper into
the tomb. Turn to 374.

You move the piece sideways to the left, and
Nemset moves White Two, two squares foward. Black
One is now free to move. Will you move Black One (turn
to 80) or Black Two again (turn to 243)?

8—10

8

After meandering through barren, rocky hills, the track
descends through a boulder-strewn pass and divides,
one branch continuing north-eastwards, while the other
leads directly towards a line of several high peaks in
the east. Looking at Jerran’s map, you see that the
route you are now on goes towards the temple, while
the new path to the right should take you to the
Shaman at Spirit Rock. Will you continue north-east-
wards (turn to 146) or take the right-hand fork (turn
to 79)

It is not long before you come to the top of another
flight of stone steps; at their base, you enter a large,
rubble-strewn chamber, its ceiling some ten metres
above you. Turn to 202.

You dodge the man’s charge, then draw your sword
to defend yourself. He unsheathes his rusted weapon
and turns on you, shouting, ‘Die, Demon! You cannot
prevail against the honour of Don Huan Fernandez,
Knight of Vastille!’ With that, the two of you engage
in combat.

Cl Cd

11-13

FERNANDEZ SKILL 7 STAMINA 7

If you reduce your opponent’s sTAMINA score to 3
points or less, turn immediately to 253.

11
The path you are following leads towards a narrow,
steep-sided gorge, the land on either side of it rising
up to the cliff-tops. If you have Cranno’s Warning
written on your Adventure Sheet, turn to 310. Other-
wise, turn to 298.

12

The walls of the tunnel here are constructed from
chiselled blocks of stone. Not far along the passage,
you come to a place where the ceiling opens into a
shaft travelling upwards, back towards the upper levels
of the tomb. The tunnel also continues ahead of you.
Do you want to try to climb up into the shaft in order
to explore it further (turn to 352), or do you prefer to
carry on along the tunnel, in the hope of reaching
your goal (turn to 299)?

13
‘I judge you worthy to enter the City of the Dead,’
the Sphinx says. ‘The Cult of the Cobra have taken
Akharis’s mummified body to the Temple of Sithera
on the far side of the Necropolis, where they intend to
raise him to life once more. Now go on your way.
Without hesitation, you leave the entrance hall through
a second set of double doors.

14

You find yourself standing at a vantage point overlook-
ing the vast Necropolis. As far as your eye can see are
the stone tombs of Djaratian rulers and nobles, as well
as shrines to their beast-headed gods, eldritch fires
burning round the city making it all visible. The ruined
Necropolis is obviously in use again. To your left lie
several low stone buildings that do not appear to be
tombs; to the right, in the distance, you can see what
appears to be a collection of simple dwellings, possibly
the ruined remains of a village. However, the edifice
that dominates the complex is a great black pyramid
towering over the Necropolis; a voice inside your
head tells you that this is the Temple of Sithera. What
will you do now?

Explore the low stone buildings? Turn to 56
Investigate the ruined village? Turn to 197
Make straight for the Temple of

Sithera? Tum to 92

The door opens easily. You enter an empty room,
leading into an inner sanctum. In the centre of the
sanctum stands a rectangular column and resting in a
niche in its side is an exquisite golden image of a
crocodile-headed man, probably a god, no more than
thirty centimetres high, dressed in Djaratian garb.
There is no sign of any guards, so will you take the
statue (turn to 255) or leave the shrine undisturbed
and return to the tunnel (turn to 284)?

15-17

15

Between them, the merchants have some very interest-
ing items for sale: they are listed below with their
prices. If you decide to buy anything, do so, then turn
to the relevant paragraph to find out more about your
new acquisition.

Oil of Lotus — 4 Gold Pieces Turn to 155
Two Yokka Eggs — 6 Gold Pieces Turn to 291
Sandworm’s Tooth — 6 Gold Pieces Turn to 328
Alabaster Scarab — 7 Gold Pieces Turn to 41
Crystal Pyramid — 5-Gold Pieces Turn to 209

When you have finished here, you leave the market
and set out on your quest; turn to 242.

16

The passage ends at a flight of steps. Descending
these, you are surprised to find yourself in a partially
flooded network of tunnels. As this is the only way
onwards, you wade into the water; it only comes up
to your waist, so at least your provisions will remain
dry. The flooding is caused by the once great river,
which used to run through the desert kingdom of
Djarat before its destruction but which now flows
underground. Further along the tunnel you come to an
intersection. Will you go straight on (turn to 217),
turn left (turn to 124) or right (turn to 234)?

17

You fall only a few metres and fortunately suffer
nothing worse than cuts and bruises (deduct 2 points
from your sTAMINA). If you want to attempt the

18-19

ascent of Spirit Rock again, turn to 391. If you prefer
to abandon your search for the Shaman and set off in
search of the temple again, turn to 178.

18

There are two ways you can use fire as a weapon. The
first is to fight using a torch, if you have one. If you
do this, turn to 138 and fight as normal, but with your
Attack Strength reduced by 1 point; if you win an
Attack Round, you will cause 4 points of damage to
the Mummy’s sTAMINA rather than the usual 2, since
your weapon ignites its bone-dry bandages. The
second method is to throw a fire source, such as a
lamp, a Yokka Egg or a burning skin of oil at the
Mummy. For each one you attack in this way you
must Test your Skill; if you succeed, the Mummy bursts
into flames and is destroyed. You may try this method
as many times as you have fire sources to use. Once
you have used up all your fire sources, or when you give
up this method of attack, note down how many of the
Mummies you have already killed and turn to 138.

19
The scarab symbol slides easily into the wall. Will you
press the snake next (turn to 157) or the vulture (tum
to 230)?

20-21

20
So now you know the location of Akharis’s tomb!
Without further delay, you begin to make your way
out of the temple ruins so as to continue your journey
eastwards. Walking between the columns, you sud-
denly catch a glimpse of a red-robed figure dashing
behind a crumbling wall. Could it be ...2 You give
chase and, rounding the corner, see the man standing,
ten metres away, his scarlet robes bearing the golden
image of a cobra. Swiftly you draw your sword, ready
to deal with the evil cultist. However, before you can
get any closer, the man strikes the sandy bank by him
several times with the staff he is holding in his hands.
Immediately you hear an angry buzzing as a cloud
of desert wasps flies out of a hole in the bank, their
nest having been disturbed. You watch as the hornet-
like insects swarm towards the cultist, then suddenly
stop, hovering in mid-air. The cultist has his fingertips
pressed to his temple and appears to be concentrating
deeply. The wasps mass together into a cloud which
rapidly takes on the form of one of the insects, only
many times larger. The swarm, looking like a gigantic
wasp with a tapered abdomen and a sting half a metre
Pp. Yy Fa long, turns on its massive wings and moves towards
i sie | SZ7 faa) you threateningly. You are going to have to deal with
ee Y CA OL / if im). the swarm; there is no way of escaping it. Will you
‘A  £ W ABA Sd defend yourself with your sword (turn to 222) or will

you use an alternative weapon (turn to 108)?

21
You pull the stakes out of the ground so that the
Dracon can free itself from the net. ‘At last,’ the

EJ Es

21

creature growls in a haughty tone. ‘I suppose | owe
you my thanks. I don’t know how I ever managed to
get into such a predicament in the first place. I only
lay down for a nap and then those impudent trappers
had the effrontery to try to capture me. No doubt |
was bound for the animal traders’ markets of Rimon
and then into the private zoo of some upstart human
noble. If there’s one thing I cannot tolerate, it’s a
complete lack of manners.’

Four men on horseback suddenly appear between the
boulders. Seeing you. with their prize free, they dis-
mount and draw their weapons. The leader of the
group, stripped to the waist and with a shaven head,
runs at you with a stiletto dagger grasped in one
hand. You join battle with the leader while the Dracon
takes on his accomplices.

TRAPPER SKILL 8

The blade of the trapper’s dagger is coated with a
poison that normally induces sleep. However, it will
have no such effect on you, due to your high immunity
to toxins. The first time the trapper wins an Attack
Round you must add 1 to your Porson total, as well
as deducting the usual 2 points of damage to your
STAMINA. If you win, turn to 125.

STAMINA 7

22-24

22

It is well known that snakes fear fire, so if you have
some means of clearing a path with fire, such as a skin
of oil or a torch, you can use this method to reach the
box easily without being bitten (turn to 186). If you
have no such items to clear the way, or if you do not
wish to waste any materials necessary for such a plan,
you will have to make a run for it through the asps’
nest (turn to 99).

23

As you walk towards the right-hand exit, the guards’
bones rise jerkily from their posts and advance towards
you. They will reach the archway before you do, so, if
you want to avoid clashing with the guards, you could
change direction and run through the other exit (turn
to 371). If you are intent on passing through this
archway, you will have to fight.

SKILL STAMINA
First SKELETAL GUARD 8 6
Second SKELETAL
GUARD ; 6

If you win, turn to 229.

24

The terrain grows progressively more tortuous as you
make your way towards the ruined temple. At mid-
day you rest briefly, to avoid being out in the open
during the hottest part of the day; but by mid-after-
noon you are walking between steep cliffs and high

Ce] ES]
25

stacks of rock. Gradually the sound of a struggle
reaches your ears from somewhere to the west be-
tween the rocks. If you want to investigate, turn to
372. If you would rather ignore the disturbance, turn
to 226.

25

You can attack the mummified animals with fire in one
of two ways. The first method is to use a torch as a
weapon, if you have one. To do this, turn to 163 and
fight the creatures as normal but with your Attack
Strength reduced by 1 point since you are using an
unusual weapon; however, every successful strike you
make against a creature will cause 4 points of damage
to its STAMINA rather than the usual 2. The second
way is to throw a fire source, such as a lamp or
burning skin of oil, at a creature. For each animal, Test
your Skill and, if you are successful, your opponent
will burst into flames and be destroyed. Any you fail
to destroy, or if you run out of fire sources, you will
have to fight; turn to 163. If you kill all the beasts in
this way, turn to 147.

26-27

26
You give a single loud blast on the horn and it echoes
off the distant hills and across the endless sands. The
two Warriors look startled — then suddenly you are
aware of two more of the creatures behind you. The
bone horn is one used by the Xoroa to summon help
and warn the colony of danger! The mutuated ant-men

close in on you from all sides. You must fight all four
at the same time!

SKILL STAMINA
First XOROA 10 11
Second XOROA 10 10
Third XOROA 11 9
Fourth XOROA 10 11

If you somehow survive this battle, turn to 331.

27

‘To reach the deeper sections of the tomb, you will
have to enter the Fangs of Sithera. The only way to
escape is to locate the door-release, hidden in a corner
of the room.’ If you ever find yourself in the Fangs of
Sithera, halve the number of the paragraph you are
reading at the time, then turn to the paragraph with
this new number. Now return to 286.

Ey} EJ
28-30

28

As the Black Lion slumps to the ground, a great cheer
goes up from the onlookers. Jerran is not badly
wounded but, because you were distracted by having
to fight the deadly beast, the cultist has got away. You
will now have to try to head him off on the way to
the tomb (turn to 242) or give up the chase and visit
the markets, to prepare for your quest (turn to 112).

29
‘And now my final question,’ says the Sphinx. ‘How
many hazards must a dead person face on his or her
journey through the underworld?’ If you know the
answer, turn to the paragraph with the same number.
If you do not, you say just anything; turn to 361.

30

The pillar-filled hall is deserted. At the far end a pair
of cedar-wood doors stand ajar. Peering through them,
you see another passage leading left and right. Which
way will you go: to the left (turn to 87) or to the right
(turn to 254)?

51-33

31

The night is numbingly cold and you are barely able
to sleep at all. In the morning you feel worse than you
did when you settled down the night before (deduct 2
points from your sTAMINA). As the feeling returns to
your limbs with the rising sun’s warming rays, you
consult Jerran’s map; it shows you that you must now
head directly north for the temple. Turn to 5.

32

Your body feels as if it is being crushed, and you look
down to see that you are trapped within the constrict-
ing coils of an enormous golden cobra. It raises its
head until it is level with your face, and watches you
with glittering eyes. And then it strikes. Your adven-
ture is over.

33
Full of trepidation, you step over the blood-stained
sand and round the great carcasses and enter the
tomb. Turn to 204.

34

34

The key turns in the lock and the ornate stone door
swings open. You are at the top of a wide stone
staircase; descending it, you enter a vast, high-ceilinged
chamber. The blue roof is dotted with stylized yellow
stars, while the walls are covered in plaster which has
been painted with scenes of the dead king’s life. In one
frieze he venerates his dark goddess, in another he
dictates his harsh law, and in another he communes
with vile, demonic creatures. Several archways lead
out of this main chamber, allowing you glimpses of
fabulous golden treasures and caskets brimming with
sparkling jewels.

However, your attention is drawn to Akharis’s huge
stone sarcophagus and the enormous serpent wrapped
round it. Covered in red, black and yellow scales, the
gigantic snake must be at least twenty metres long! As
your light falls on to its body, the serpent’s ancient,
reptilian eyes flick open. Slowly it raises its head and
starts to uncoil itself, its hard skin grating against the
stone of the coffin as it rubs across it. With fangs as
long as your arm, dripping with venom, the Great
Serpent attacks.

GREAT SERPENT  sxitt 8 STAMINA 11

If the serpent wins an Attack Round, you must lose 3
STAMINA points and gain 2 POISON points from its
terrible bite. If the monster wins two consecutive
Attack Rounds, turn to 193. If you kill the over-grown
reptile, turn to 88.

[] EJ

35-37

35
You leap through the archway just as the statue

crashes to the floor behind you, completely blocking
the way back into the chamber! You will never be able
to move the colossus, so you descend deeper into the
tomb. Turn to 216.

36

With the cultist dead, the glowing sphere she was
using to light her way fades. Ignoring this, you look
around to see what else you can find. The cultist was
recovering a small earthenware jar, which (as you learn
when removing its lid) contains a peculiarly shaped,
mummified object. If you want to take this jar, add it
to your Adventure Sheet. You find nothing else of use
to you, but then you notice that the sphere is still
pulsing with faint light. If you want to pick it up, turn
to 159. If you do not, you leave the chamber; turn
to 9.

37
A quarter of an hour later, a group of four men on

horseback appears between the boulders, one stripped
to the waist and with a shaven head, apparently the
leader. Dismounting, they approach the Dracon, which
roars in defiance and fear. Unperturbed, the bald man
walks up to the monster and plunges a stiletto dagger
into its side. The creature soon stops struggling and
falls, unconscious. The four men pull up the stakes and,
having bound the Dracon’s feet together, drag it on to
a wooden sled pulled by two of the horses and,
remounting, ride away southwards. There is nothing

38-39

for you to do here but return to the trail and set off
again eastwards. Turn to 250.

38

Pulling the iron wand from your backpack, you strike
Akharis with it. At once he is surrounded by a shimmer-
ing black aura — and he seems to revel in it. You are
wielding the Sceptre of Oset, which the ancient Djara-
tian people hid from the Cult of the Cobra because it
was imbued with evil power. Rather than weakening
the Mummy, it has strengthened him! Remember to
add 1 point to Akharis’s skit. and 3 points to his
STAMINA when you come to fight him. Now tum
to 215.

39
Walking towards the mounds, you catch sight of two

bizarre-looking creatures among the boulders. From
the waist up they appear to be human, except that
their eyes are silver and, instead of outer ears, two
flexible, ant-like feelers extend forward from the top of
their heads. However, their lower bodies and legs are
those of a giant ant! Coloured a light reddish brown
and standing about one and a half metres tall, these
creatures are Xoroa. As well as being able to see in the
dark, Xoroa have an acute sense of smell and they can
easily pick up your scent, which is rather strong after
days of sweaty travel through the scorching wilder-
ness. The two Workers start to make a series of frantic
clicks and hums, then they scuttle towards an opening
in one of the mounds. Suddenly two more Xoroa
appear from between the boulders. These creatures are

Ey Ey
40-42

larger than the Workers, standing almost two metres
tall, and their skin is slightly darker coloured. Both are
holding javelins, and one also carries a sling. Quickly
the Xoroa Warrior lets fly a stone directly at you. Roll
one dice. If the number rolled is odd, turn to 263; if it
is even, turn to 357.

40
The passage turns sharply to the left and you can see
a light being cast from round the corner. Carefully
poking your head round the turning, you see a red-
swathed figure bending over a hole in a derelict room.
It is one of the cultists! Round her lie the charred
outlines of three humanoid creatures, although their
fanged, skull-like visages still remain. The cultist is
lifting something out of the hole. Do you want to rush
in and attack (turn to 212), wait and watch for a
moment (turn to 116) or, seeing that this is a dead-
end, return along the passage and go the other way
(turn to 9)?

41

The scarab, carved from a lump of veined alabaster, is
actually an ancient lucky charm. Whenever you are
instructed to Test your Luck, you may deduct 1 from
the dice roll. Now return to 15.

42
It is no good. You search desperately for a means of
escape but can find none. Deep underground, Akharis’s
burial chamber acquires a new occupant as you are
buried alive under the sand!

43-45

43
Peering round the edge of the arch, you look into a

small chamber which is faced with stone; its walls are
covered in hieroglyphs and carvings of animal-headed
people. Standing in front of a statue of a bull-headed
man that reaches up to the ceiling is a red-robed
figure: the cultist you chased into the tomb! Will you
enter the chamber and attack him immediately (turn to
191) or wait to find out what the cultist is doing (turn
to 340)?

44
Nandibears have no need of treasure, so they usually

remove it from their homes. However, you do find part
of a human skeleton, still wearing what was once a red
robe; on one bony finger is a gold ring, fashioned to
look like a coiled cobra. If you want to take the Cobra
Ring, make a note of it on your Adventure Sheet. You
also find a few Gold Pieces lying among the carcasses
(roll one dice to lear how many). Finding nothing else
of value, you leave the Nandibear’s lair and rejoin the
trail leading north-westwards (tum to 337).

45
Slowly, using the Papyrus Scroll, you are able to
translate the hieroglyphs copied into the diary. The
inscription reads:

And all those who would despoil the shrine of
Cracca, Lord of Rivers and Ferryman of the Gods,
beware the wrath of the crocodile-headed one.

Tum to 226.

EE
46-47

46

The force of your blow sends Akharis reeling back
into the one brazier left standing. Instantly the magical
fire ignites his wrappings and the Mummy bursts into
flames. Howling, Akharis’s burning undead body stum-
bles forward and topples down the steps. In moments,
all that is left of the evil creature is a pile of ashes.
Akharis is truly dead at last.

But even though you have succeeded in your quest,
will you be able to escape and live to tell the tale? For
the first time, you notice, behind the broken remains
of the statute of Sithera, an alcove which contains
some of the cult’s magical artefacts. Will you waste no
more precious moments and flee the temple (turn to 2),
or will you see if you can use the artefacts to help you
get out (turn to 232)?

47
‘That is correct,’ Lopar murmurs. ‘Now sit, and I shall

tell you what I know of the Cult of the Cobra and the

47

Curse of Akharis.’ You sit opposite the dog-headed
Shaman and listen to his tale. ‘The Cult of the Cobra
are followers of Sithera, the ancient Djaratian Goddess
of Evil. Sithera is, in fact, the Demon Prince Sith in the
guise of a four-armed woman with a snake’s head. The
Djaratians worshipped many of our gods and demi-
gods in the form of animal-headed humans, such as the
cat goddess Meerar whom they knew as Seket, God-
dess of Joy. The Djaratians also believed strongly in
the power of charms. The Cult of the Cobra practise
the curse-magic of their long-dead high priests, and
you will no doubt need amulets and talismans to
protect you from their spells.’ You ask Lopar how he
knows so much about the sect and the history of
Djarat. ‘I was not always as I appear now,’ he says,
sombrely. ‘When I was a foolish young scholar with a
lust for knowledge, searching in the desert I stumbled
upon some of the ruins of that once great civilization.
I filled my mind with everything and anything I could
discover about the race, but I pried too far and
disturbed the resting place of a high priestess of
Sithera. Inadvertently I released her spirit into the
world and suffered her cruel vengeance, before I man-
aged to banish her spectre. However, if you do not
stop the Cult, and if Akharis should be returned to this
world, the fate of hundreds of innocent people will be
much worse than mine. Do all you can to thwart their
nefarious plans!’ If you have any items in your posses-
sion that you wish to ask Lopar about, turn to 194.
Otherwise, the Shaman says to you: ‘Now lie down
beside this fire and sleep. You still have a long way to
go before you meet your destiny.’ Tum to 76.

Cd EJ

48-50

48

Swimming towards you are two huge reptiles, each
four metres long. When they are very close to you,
the crocodiles open their jaws wide and attack, intent
on satisfying their voracious appetites. In the narrow
passageway, fight the creatures one at a time. How-
ever, because you are fighting waist-deep in water,
you must reduce your Attack Strength by 1 for the
duration of this battle.

SKILL STAMINA
First CROCODILE 8 7
Second CROCODILE 7 8

The crocodile is sacred to Akharis’s cult because it is
such an efficient killer. There are more crocodiles
guarding these flooded corridors so, if you win this
battle and come to this spot again, roll one dice. If you
roll 1-3, you will meet only one crocodile; on a roll of
4-5, you will meet two more; and if you roll a 6 you
will meet nothing. Tum to 287.

49

As you hit the ground, the Yokka Eggs in your
backpack break. At once they hatch, releasing the fiery
birds. For each egg you break, deduct one dice worth
of damage from your STAMINA as the blazing creatures
bathe your body in flames. If you survive, turn to
202.

50
Keeping your back against one of the tall pillars, you
are able to fight the Caarth one at a time.

Ey} oJ
51-52

SKILL STAMINA
CAARTH WARRIOR 10 10
CAARTH SORCERER 9 8

The first time you are hit by either of the Caarth, you
must add 1 to your POISON score, as well as losing the
usual 2 points from your sTAMINA, because of the
venom with which the evil Snakemen coat their weap-
ons. If you win and you did not suffer any damage
from the Caarth, regain 1 Luck point and tum to 231.
If you did suffer some damage, roll one dice. On a roll
of 6, turn to 158; otherwise, turn to 231.

51
Unsheathing your weapon, you charge at the undead
horde. Test your Luck. If you are Lucky, turn to 138. If
you are Unlucky, turn to 176.

52
The Cyclops falls to the ground, dead. If Fernandez
attacked you when you last met, turn to 261. If he did
not, turn to 96.

53-54

53
You become engrossed in the game, forgetting your

worries for a while. Soon the board looks like this:

@|@
@
@|e

©
@|@
© 5

As you can see, the piece, Black One, is trapped at the
moment by White One and White Two. It is your
turn; which piece will you move?

Black Two? Tum to 7

Black Three? Turn to 156

Black Four? Turn to 205

Black Five? Turn to 184
54

Where will you go now: through the other door, if
you have not already been there (turn to 393), or
along the new passage leading away from this junction
(turn to 239)?

55-56

55
Before you can get to your feet, you feel the cultist’s

hands round your throat (deduct 2 points from your °

STAMINA). The cultist is trying to strangle you! Fight
the battle which follows in the normal way; however,
you cannot injure your opponent until you have got
free. If you win an Attack Round, do not deduct any
points from his staMINA score. If you win two consecu-
tive Attack Rounds, you manage to free yourself from
the cultist’s grip and, from then onwards, you can
injure the cultist in the usual way.

CULTIST SKILL 7 STAMINA 7

If you win, turn to 214.

- 56
An eerie silence pervades this area of the city. Inside
the buildings you find rooms containing stone tables
and benches covered with rusty tools and broken clay
pots. In the heart of the complex you enter one room

57

that has been used recently: scraps of linen lie, dis-
carded, on the floor and a dark fluid has stained the
crumbling slab. It is then you realize the purpose of
these rooms: these are the embalming chambers to
which the bodies of the dead were brought to be
preserved. You are especially interested in two jars,
half-full of strange liquids. One is sweet-smelling, while
the other stinks foully and is syrupy. Do you want to:

Drink some of the sweet-smelling

liquid? Turn to 82
Drink some of the reeking syrup? Turn to 173
Rub some of the syrup on your skin? Turn to 219
Leave the embalming chambers? Turn to 147

You react immediately, sprinting through the gorge
away from the landslide, although you are still hit by a
few small rocks (deduct 2 points from your STAMINA).
Turn to 89.

Ea Es]

58-60

58
Gazing into the depths of the crystal orb, you concen-
trate all your mental energies into searching for some-
thing within it. Test your Skill, adding 1 to the dice
roll. If you succeed, turn to 358. If you fail, turn to

313.

59
When the Death Spider bites you, it also injects its

poison into your bloodstream, paralysing you. The
Demon drags your body on to its web and goes on
biting you until you are dead. Its dire task complete,
the Death Spider, along with its web and your corpse,
dematerializes, returning to the Realms of the Damned,
where your soul will be extracted and tortured for all
eternity!

60

The lapis lazuli set into the breastplate glows with an
inner light and above you hovers a great spirit falcon,

61

its wings scintillating with azure flames. The bird of
prey swoops down on the phantasmal creature and
tears at the beast with its ghostly talons, while the
snake-heads strike at the falcon. Within seconds the
battle is over and the jackal-spirit is banished back to
the Demonic Planes. Its duty done, the falcon also
vanishes.

Suddenly you feel the priestess’s gaze upon you. Her
eyes burn with a crimson fire, and under her cruel
stare you feel the strength ebbing from your body. If
you have an Eye-shaped Amulet, turn to 151. If you
do not, turn to 344.

61
Finding itself being overwhelmed by your superior
fighting skill, the Dracon leaps out of reach of your
weapon and takes to the air on its stubby wings. As it
flies away, it continues to hurl insults at you until it is
out of earshot. Alone again, you continue on your
quest. Turn to 250.

62-63

62

These desolate highlands seem to be devoid of life in
any form; you make your way further to the east
under the glare of the blazing sun, but there is still no
sign of the cultist. The route you are following climbs
upwards until you are walking along a narrow path
bounded on your right by a steep, rocky slope and on
your left by a precipice. Without warning, a surpris-
ingly cold wind begins to blow in from across the
desert, swirling the sand round about you. As you
watch, the spiralling current of air and sand becomes a
focused column and forms a recognizable shape. Stand-
ing on the track in front of you is a humanoid, over
two metres in height and composed entirely of the
substance of the desert. With great clenched fists and a
malevolent red glow in its eye-sockets, the Sand Golem
advances on you. What will you use against this
magical creation:

Your sword? Turn to 143
Firepowder or a Yokka Egg? Turn to 81
The statuette of a god? Turn to 378
A Sandworm’s Tooth? Tum to 308

A Carved Bone Horn? Turn to 220
63

Passing the door from the Decayer’s chamber, and the
entrance to this level of the tomb, you soon come
upon a stone door, without a handle, in the left-hand
wall. You try pushing against the door but can find no
way of opening it. Then you notice an inscription
carved round the door. If you want to stop for a while

64-65

and translate the message using the papyrus scroll,
turn to 198. Otherwise, you will have to press on
as you can find no way of opening the door (turn
to 374).

64

Unstoppering the bottle, you throw its contents over
the Mummy. Akharis howls with pain as the purifying
waters eat into his undead body like acid! Roll one
dice: this is how much damage the Waters of Life
cause the Mummy (make a note of the number of
points of sTAMINA loss you have already inflicted on
Akharis). Turn to 215.

65

Buried under the piles of bones you unearth the remains
of a backpack that you presume belonged to the
unfortunate human. Looking inside the backpack, you
find a small notebook. Opening it, you discover that it
is a diary or journal. From what you can make out, its
owner was among the band of explorers, one of whom
tumbled into Jerran Farr’s camp eight days ago; the
diary contains information about their progress to the
temple, but you also read something else of interest. On
their journey the group came upon some ruins which
they believed to be Djaratian. On one section of wall
they found an inscription in a strange picture script; it is
reproduced in the diary. There is nothing else of
interest, but before leaving you decide to take the
Rasaur’s two eggs with you, each of which will
provide a meal in itself (add 2 to your Provisions).
Turn to 226.

66-68

66

You try wedging your backpack between the roof
and one comer of the room, but to no effect. Next
you try your sword, but this snaps under the inexora-
ble pressure of the descending ceiling. Finally you lie
down and brace yourself against the floor, pushing
against the ceiling with your legs, but even this
desperate measure makes no difference. The Fangs
of Sithera claim their first victim in several thousand
years.

67

You raise the stone easily. Beneath it you find a
shallow storage pit. In this are some decayed provi-
sions and a peculiar, wand-like object, made of iron,
that has remained untarnished in this dry atmosphere;
its end is fashioned in the shape of a clawed hand. If
you want to take the iron wand, add it to your
Adventure Sheet. Whether you do or not, you will now
have to leave the village. Where will you make for
now: the Temple of Sithera (turn to 92) or the low
stone buildings, if you haven't been there already (turn
to 56)?

68
Fortunately, since you are standing back-to-back in the
narrow street, only one cultist can attack each of you

at a time. You prepare to defend yourself against the
leader.

CULTIST SKILL 7
If you defeat your opponent, turn to 214.

tye

STAMINA 7

69-71

69
The tangle of flooded corridors you are in now leads
off in all directions. Peering down new intersecting
tunnels, you see that yet more passageways lead off
from these. Which way will you go?

First left, first right, second right? Turn to 217
First right, first left, then straight on? Turn to 162
Second right, then straight on? Turn to 182
Second left, first right? Turn to 301

zo

Using the incredible strength of your willpower
alone, you break the control of the Path of Fear.
The terror of the waking nightmare was all in your
mind. Now the corridor is empty once more and
you can continue on your way, but you have been
permanently scarred by the experience. Reduce both
your Initial and current skit by 1 point. Turn to
16.

We f AAR LE:

71

Peering through the archway, you find yourself look-
ing into a small chamber faced with stone; its walls are
covered in hieroglyphs and carvings of animal-headed

72-74

people. On the opposite side of the room is a statue of
a bull-headed man that reaches up to the ceiling. Your
flickering light casts eerie shadows across the walls
and you decide that there is nothing here of any
importance to your quest, so you continue along the
tunnel. Eventually the passage turns right again, bring-
ing you to the top of another flight of stone steps.
You have no choice but to descend, wondering how
far down into the earth this tomb leads. Turn to 216.

72

Muscles tensed, you spring forward and manage to
get hold of the statue. Where you were standing a
moment ago is now the opening into a pit of bubbling
acid! Pulling yourself to safety, you put the Malachite
Amulet round your neck and waste no time in getting
out of the room. Turn to 247.

73
No matter what you try to use against the statue,

your attempts to stop it are futile. A massive stone
foot is raised and then smashed down with tremen-
dous force, with you underneath it. Your adventure
ends here.

74
Unrolling the scroll, you see that it is covered in

incomprehensible hieroglyphic picture-script, written
in black ink and arranged into five columns. You can
make no sense of the hieroglyphs, so you roll the
scroll up again and tuck it into your backpack. Return

to 339.

[-} Ee

75-76

75

Walking along the sand-strewn tunnel, the passageway
eventually turns ninety degrees to the left, then contin-
ues as before. As you progress further you see that
ahead of you, to the right, part of the tunnel wall has
caved in, revealing the entrance to a roughly circular
tunnel. As you approach, you can hear scuttling and
scraping sounds coming from the hole. A_ huge,
glossy-brown, oval-bodied beetle enters the passage-
way, rolling a large ball of compacted earth and stones
in front of it. Then the Giant Scarab stops, sensing
your presence, and clicks its mandibles menacingly.
You have invaded the beetle’s territory and are block-
ing its path. With one tremendous push, the Scarab
sends the ball of earth hurtling directly at you. Test
your Skill. If you succeed, turn to 246. If you fail, turn
to 172.

76

You wake up as the sun is rising over the eastern hills.
You are lying in the middle of a dusty track that
wends its way north-westwards through the wilder-
ness. Behind you, many kilometres away on the hori-
zon, you can see the silhouette of Spirit Rock. Lopar
has helped you once more on your quest (regain 1
LUCK point and 2 STAMINA points). With renewed
vigour you proceed on your way.

Under Glantanka’s unrelenting gaze you travel on
through the heat of the day. The uneven path leads
you further into the wilderness that fringes the Desert
of Skulls. You follow the route north-westwards across

Cd ES

77-79

boulder-strewn hills and through narrow valleys. As
you pass through one rocky gully you notice a large
hole at its base, leading underground. Do you want to
stop and investigate this entrance into the earth (turn
to 324) or will you continue on your way without
hesitation (turn to 226)?

You squeeze through the small hole and crawl along a
tunnel on your belly for a few metres, The tunnel
suddenly slopes steeply downwards and you find
yourself sliding into the depths of the temple. The
tunnel eventually opens into a bare chamber and you
are deposited on the hard stone floor. An archway
leads out of this chamber and further into the temple,
so this is the way you will have to go. Tum to 347.

78
You know you cannot harm the Sentinel of the Shrine
unless you are in contact with a piece of the material
from which it is formed. However, while retrieving
this item you are vulnerable to attack and must auto-
matically lose the first round of combat. After that you
can fight on as normal.

GOLDEN SENTINEL
If you win, turn to 368.

SKILL 11 STAMINA 12

79
As the sun reaches its highest point, you rest for a few

minutes in the shade of a great slab of rock. (You may
eat Provisions here if you wish.) The whole landscape

80-82

looks as if a Giants’ game of knuckle-bones has been
played here. The only signs of life in this scorching
wilderness are the occasional lizard, running over the
pocks in search of beetles, and a lonely bird of prey
soaring on the warm thermals above you in the cloudless
azure sky. The only sound is made by a cool breeze
blowing through the valley. . . but it isn’t the only sound!
You are suddenly aware of a low growling coming from
somewhere among the rocks behind you. Do you want
to investigate the source of this noise (turn to 294), or will
you hurriedly move on eastwards again (turn to 250)?

80
& is a close thing, but Nemset’s piece just beats yours
bo the opposite end of the board. You concede defeat
and prepare to leave the tomb. Turn to 322.

81

There is a sudden blinding flash and, as your eyes
recover, you are startled by the sight now in front of
you. Under the intense heat of the explosion produced
by your attack the sand that the Golem was composed
of has completely vitrified. Standing on the path in
front of you know is a motionless glass statue. You
give the Golem one great push and it plummets over
the edge of the precipice, smashing into hundreds of
pieces when it hits the rocks below. Regain 1 LUCK
point for your quick thinking and turn to 183.

82

You gulp the liquid down and discover that it is wine
infused with medicinal herbs. The wine is used to

EY

83-84

clean the corpse before it is mummified, but on you it
has a restorative effect (regain up to 4 STAMINA points
and increase your Attack Strength by 1 point during
your next battle). Now will you:

Drink some of the foul-smelling

syrup? Turn to 173
Rub some of the syrup on your
body? Turn to 219

Leave the embalming chambers? Turn to 379
83

Yokka Eggs are warm to the touch; with one of these
clutched to you while you sleep you will not need to
light a fire. The night passes peacefully without any
disturbances (restore 2 STAMINA points). In the mom-
ing, having consulted Farr’s map again, you take a
route north towards the temple; turn to 5.

84
You reach out a hand to pick up a fistful of jewels but
jump back in surprise as the treasure pile rears up in
front of you. You blink several times and the illusion
disappears. The room is actually home to a Scitalis, a
large, brightly coloured snake which traps its prey
with illusions of treasure. You are going to have to
fight the deceiving serpent, but at least you can take
some comfort from the fact that its bite is not poison-
ous — it does not need to be!

SCITALIS SKILL 8
If you win, turn to 3.

STAMINA 10

85-88

85
What will you use: a Bronze Rattle (turn to 168),
an Iron Wand (turn to 38) or the Book of the Dead
(turn to 245)? If you have none of these items, turn
to 215.

86
‘The great Cranno, hero of a hundred tragedies, has no
time to help lesser mortals when he has a dozen
soliloquies to rehearse. Now leave this place.’ Will you
do as the man says (turn to 8) or attack him (turn to

134)?

87

You wander along the featureless tunnel — one corridor
is very like another in this labyrinthine tomb. Eventu-
ally, having led you around to the right, the passage
does reveal something of interest. To your left is the
entrance to another passage, but it has been crudely
blocked with lumps of rock. It may take a while but
you think you can clear the obstruction. Do you want
to:

Clear the entrance by hand? Turn to 166
Use Firepowder, if you have some,

to clear it? Turn to 390
Continue along the passage? Turn to 154

88
With the serpent dead, will you open the sarcophagus
immediately (turn to 376), or do you want to search
Akharis’s treasure-rooms first (turn to 179)?

rd} EJ

89-90

89

As the dust clears, you hear a terrible shriek and look
up at the rocky ledges above you. On both sides of the
gorge, among the rocks, is a group of six baboons.
They are almost as large as men, covered in bristly fur
and with vicious-looking, sharp teeth. They are leaping
up and down, snarling and howling cruelly. One, larger
than the rest, is standing on its hind legs and holding a
boulder over its head. It must have been these creatures
which caused the landslide. Sensing that the baboons
will attack at any moment, you unsheathe your sword
_ ~and not a moment too soon, as the two nearest apes

leap towards you, ready to tear you to pieces with

their clawed hands. Fight them both together.

SKILL STAMINA
First BABOON 7 5
Second BABOON 6 6

If you kill the vicious creatures, turn to 316.

90

As you reach the top of yet another ridge you pass an
outcrop of rock, and suddenly your goal becomes
visible. At the edge of a vast mesa that stretches to
the east and north, rising up between two of the
sandy hills is a tall pinnacle of rock, its sides almost
vertical. A massive boulder, which appears to be precari-
ously balanced, rests on its flat top. The boulder is
covered in swirling patterns formed by veins of some
crystalline substance. There is a strong aura of elemen-
tal energy about the place and a voice inside your

C) Eg

ee T- ———ee

91-92

head tells you that this must be Spirit Rock. A thin
trail of smoke rises into the air from the top of the
boulder, and you can just make out a small cave
entrance at its base where it rests on the pinnacle. The
Shaman must live at the top of the rock and, from all
appearances, you assume that he is there at the
moment. However, the only way you are going to
gain access to the cave is to scale the pinnacle. If you
are determined to seek the Shaman’s aid and want to
make the dangerous climb, turn to 152. If you would
rather abandon this approach and set off in search of
the temple once mote, turn to 178.

91
‘By Assamarra, God of the Sands, I command you to
begone!’ As soon as you have spoken these words, the
wind picks up again, but this time it blows the Golem’s
insubstantial, shifting form apart, scattering the sand
throughout the wilderness. The deity of deserts and
arid places himself has aided you. Regain 1 Luck point
and turn to 183.

92
Making your way along the processional avenue of
the Necropolis, you see the black pyramid looming up
in front of you. However, before you reach the temple,

93-94

you pass through other areas of the city that may be
of interest. To your left, extending towards the distant
edge of the cavern are the tombs of Djaratians, while
to the right are shrines to their gods. Do you want to
proceed by making for:

The tombs? Tur to 149
The shrines? Turn to 295
The Temple of Sithera? Turn to 395

93
You fall more than twenty metres down the side of the

pinnacle, hitting rocky outcrops and ledges on the way
down. You land heavily among the boulders at the base
of Spirit Rock, seriously injured; you are covered in cuts
and bruises; you have several cracked ribs and have
sprained your left ankle (deduct 7 points from your
STAMINA, 2 points from your SKILL and 1 point from
your Luck). You are no longer in any condition to climb
the rock so, having tended to your wounds, you set off,
hobbling in great pain, for the temple. Turn to 178.

The Decayer bursts into flames on contact with the
source of your fire and is soon consumed by fire. You
carefully avoid the undead creature as it stumbles
about in the chamber, screeching, and deftly move
towards the door. Turn to 148.

E] CJ

95-96

95
“Your second question. In reaching the Necropolis you

have ferried yourself across the Sacred Lake. But tell
me this: who is the Ferryman of the Gods and Lord of
Rivers?’ Convert the name of the deity that is the
answer into numbers, using the code A = 1, B = 2,
C = 3... Z = 26. Add the numbers together then
turn to the paragraph with the same number as the
total you have calculated. If you get it wrong, or if
you do not know the answer, turn to 262.

‘Thank you, my friend,’ says the old knight. “You are a
truly noble and honourable warrior. Between us we
have rid the land of one of the foul giant brethren. Let
us drink a toast together. Gordo!’ he calls. ‘Where are
you, man?’ Fernandez’s cowardly manservant emerges
from his hiding place and approaches his master. ‘Give
me the bottle of Old Sarnak’s we've got,’ the old man
tells him. ‘Here, my friend,’ he says, passing you the
bottle, ‘this will revitalize your spirits.’ You take a
swig of the fortified wine and immediately feel its
effects. Restore up to 4 STAMINA points and add 1
point to your Attack Strength for the next combat
you are involved in. While Gordo tends Don Huan’s
wounds, you waste no more time in returning to your
original route to the temple. Turn to 226.

7

97-99

97
At last you find yourself face-to-face with the ancient
evil that you came all this way to destroy. Remember
to deduct any points of skILL or STAMINA damage
you may have already caused the Mummy, then do
battle with Akharis, who tries to beat you into oblivion
with his powerful fists.

AKHARIS

If you overcome your inhumanly strong, ultimate
opponent, turn to 336.

SKILL 13 STAMINA 25

98
A short figure suddenly appears in the open doorway.
The man is dressed in plain grey robes and is wearing
a mask with grotesquely exaggerated features. ‘I am
the great Cranno, master of a thousand roles, possessor
of a thousand guises!’ the little man booms. Will you:

Ask Cranno for his help? Turn to 304
Attack him? Turn to 134
Leave the theatre? Turn to 8

99
Roll one dice and add 1 to the total; this is the number
of snakes which bite you as you pick your way over
their writhing mass. For each bite, deduct 1 point from

[-] Bg
100-102

your STAMINA and, for every two bites suffered, add 1
to your POISON score as well! If you survive the
venomous asps, turn to 186.

100

Ahead of you a broad set of steps leads up out of the
water and deeper into the tomb. At last you have
found a way out of the flooded maze! Regain 1 LUCK
point. Back on dry land, so to speak, you follow the
short passage that leads away from the steps to a T-
junction. To the left you can see that the tunnel ends
at a stone door, while to the right it continues into
darkness. Will you go to the left (tum to 165) or to
the right (turn to 12)?

101

‘There are many,’ Rhehotep replies seriously. ‘If you
are to reach Akharis’s burial chamber, you will have to
confront the Guardian of the Dead and overcome it.
Also, beware of Amentut, should you encounter him.
He was Akharis’s Vizier and is loyal even in death.’
Return to 286.

102

Unfortunately, this bizarre character does not believe
the account you give of yourself. ‘Why, you lying
cur!’ he roars. ‘Where is the knightly apparel that one
on a quest should wear? No, you must be some rogue
who preys on helpless travellers. Or are you in fact a
shape-changing Demon, sent by that confounded sor-
cerer Zanmethees to torment me?’ The old man is
clearly not thinking rationally. With a shout, he kicks

103-104

his heels into his nag’s sides and levels his lance at
your chest. Continue as if you were conducting one
round of combat to determine the Attack Strength of
yourself and the madman, but do not deduct any
STAMINA points (he has a SKILL of 7). If you have the
higher Attack Strength, tum to 1o. If his is higher, turn
to 211.

103
What will you use against the Mummies: fire (turn to
18) or any charms you may have (turn to 241)? If you
have none of these, you will have to use your sword
(turn to 51).

104

You have chosen wrongly in your combination. Rather
than the wall opening, a great block of stone pushes
out from the wall, behind the bull-god’s statue. Looking
up in horror, you see the great stone colossus topple
forward and at the same instant you start to run. Roll
three dice. If the total rolled is less than or equal to
your STAMINA score, turn to 35; if it is greater, turn to
122.

105—106

105
You soon come to an archway in the right-hand wall.
Beyond it is a flagstoned chamber, decorated with yet
more wall-paintings. However, your attention is drawn
to a magnificent golden statue of a rearing cobra on
the far side of the room. The statue, standing on a
finely chiselled plinth, is two metres tall and its jewelled
eyes sparkle in the flickering light. Hanging from the
cobra’s head is an amulet set with a piece of malachite,
which may be of use against the cult’s curse-magic. Do
you want to enter the room, with the intention of
retrieving the amulet (turn to 136), or would you
prefer to pass it by and continue along the tunnel (turn
to 247)?

x fi Mi pe Nhe

; ya\

Y

be XY) Y, Me

1) CULL aR

yA

o) ot)?

106
As you flee, you hear the Dracon break free of the net
and launch itself into the air. Your heart pounding,
you are suddenly knocked to the ground. As you lie in
the dust, trying to catch your breath, you feel blood
oozing from a gash on your back (deduct 2 points
from your STAMINA). The Dracon lands and stalks
towards you. ‘Well, puny human,’ it snarls, ‘let us see
what you can do with that lump of iron you call a

it

weapon!’
a DRACON SKILL 9 STAMINA 14
a whe * in | le i e : Z The Dracon oe to ane your a — mock
OL, hy x you as you fight; as a result, you must reduce your

r My,

Attack Strength by 1 point for the duration of this
battle. If you reduce the creature’s STAMINA to 5
points or less, turn at once to 61.

EA] EY

107-110

107
The diabolical creature, conjured from the underworld
of Djaratian myth, leaps at you, snarling. Your earthly
weapon is useless against the demonic spirit, which
soon overcomes you. Your body will be sacrificed to
Sithera so that Akharis may live again.

108
If you have a torch, turn to 240. Otherwise, you may
use weapons such as Firepowder or a Yokka Egg
against the swarm, but in the end you will have to
resort to using your sword (turn to 222).

109
You notice a crack at the base of the sarcophagus and
marks on the floor as if something heavy has been pushed
across it. Desperately, you push against the immense
stone coffin in the hope of revealing an escape route. Roll
three dice. If the total rolled is less than or equal to your
STAMINA score, turn to 2go. If it is greater, turn to 171.

110
Using your sword, you slice the top off the plant and,
removing the spines, bite into its juicy flesh. The bitter
taste makes you wince and, before you know what
you are doing, you have swallowed some of the
liquid. As well as being protected by its spines, the
Barbthorn has a second defence against would-be
diners: it is poisonous. (Add 2 to your poison total
and deduct 3 points from your sTAMINA.) Spitting out
the rest of the plant, you hurry on your way, leaving
the toxic Barbthorn behind. Turn to 11.

111-112

111
If you cleared a path to the box using fire, the flames
have now died down and you will either have to
employ the same means again (remember to cross off
from your Adventure Sheet whatever you use to clear a
path through the asps), in which case you will be
unharmed, or you will have to run for it. If you choose
the second option, roll one dice and deduct the total
from your STAMINA score, due to the snake bites; for
every 2 STAMINA points you lose, add 1 to your
POISON score! If you survive, or if you clear a safe
path using fire, turn to 54.

112
Quickly exploring Rimon’s markets, you soon discover
what the many stalls have to offer. Jerran Farr hands
you a bag containing 30 Gold Pieces and leaves it to
you to decide what may be most useful on your quest.
Read through the list of items described below and, if
you buy anything, deduct the appropriate number of
Gold Pieces and record the item on your Adventure
Sheet. You may buy only one of any item on this list
unless you are told otherwise.

Rope and Grapple — a length of rope with a metal hook
attached at one end. Cost: 3 Gold Pieces.

Provisions — you may buy any number of meals. Cost:
1 Gold Piece per meal.

Lantern and Oil — each use of the lantern consumes one
skin of oil. Cost: 2 Gold Pieces for the lantern plus one
skin of oil. Additional skins: 1 Gold Piece per skin.

[} EJ

112

Healing Draught — each tot of this elixir restores
STAMINA points equivalent to half your Initial. score
(rounding fractions up). There are three tots in the
bottle. Cost: 5 Gold Pieces.

Anti-Poison — when drunk, this potion will reduce your
POISON total by 4 points. Cost: 4 Gold Pieces.

Brass Telescope — this finely crafted telescope is one
of the most incredible examples of the metalworker's
art that you have ever seen. Cost: 5 Gold Pieces.

Firepowder — an alchemical compound wrapped in a
paper parcel with a taper protruding from one end.
When lit, within a few seconds the package will
explode (roll one dice to find out how many points
you may deduct from the sTAMINA of any creature in
contact with it). You may throw the package at an
opponent at the start of a battle by successfully Testing
your Skill. Cost: 4 Gold Pieces.

Torch — a length of wood with oil-soaked rags wrapped
round one end. Useful as either a light source or a
flaming weapon. You may buy a maximum of three
torches. Cost: 1 Gold Piece per torch.

Several merchants, who look as if they have done very
well for themselves from the trade, try to tempt you
into inspecting their slightly more unusual — and more
expensive — wares. If you have some money left and
want to have a look at what they have to offer, turn
to 15. Otherwise, you leave the market and set off on
your quest (turn to 242).

113-116

113
You stop half-way along the corridor and begin to
search for the entrance to the hidden room that Rhe-
hotep spoke of. Test your Skill, adding 2 to the dice
roll. If you succeed, turn to 323. If you fail, turn to

145.

114

Even if Don Huan Fernandez did attack you at your
first meeting, the eccentric old man is just a witless
fool, and leaving him to a cruel death at the hands of
the Cyclops is not an action befitting a hero such as
yourself (lose 1 Luck point). Turn to 226.

115

With grim determination, you stagger across the cham-
ber, sweating profusely. When you are past the fires
you collapse, exhausted (deduct 1 point from your
STAMINA). Unable to go on for the moment after the
strength-sapping heat of the Path of Flames, you sit
down and rest. Ten minutes pass before you feel ready
to set off once more. Getting to your feet, you march
along the tunnel until you reach a door, covered in
gold-leaf, to your left. Do you want to try this door
(turn to 14) or will you keep to your present path
(turn to 284)?

116
The cultist is holding a small earthenware jar, inscribed
with hieroglyphs, in her hands. Now you can also see
where the light in the room is coming from, for
resting next to the cultist is a glowing white sphere.

L} EF]

117-118

As she turns to leave the room, she sees you and,
picking up the sphere, hurls it at you. The blazing ball
hits you in the chest and you feel its white-hot heat
scorching your body (deduct 4 points from your
STAMINA). Wielding her curved sword, the cultist runs
at you.

CULTIST SKILL 7

If you win, turn to 36.

STAMINA 7

117

The monster’s nocturnal wanderings are not difficult
to trace, and after an hour you reach a wide cave
mouth in the hilly uplands. Knowing Nandibears to be
solitary predators, you approach without fear of meet-
ing the creature’s mate. Entering the cave, your nostrils
are assailed by a strong animal odour and the smell of
rotting meat. The monster’s lair is littered with half-
chewed bones and shattered skulls. Test your Luck. If
you are Lucky, turn to 44. If you are Unlucky, turn to
380.

118
Not sure what else to do, you hurl the jar on to the
ground, smashing it to pieces and crushing the mummi-
fied bundle it held beneath your foot. Akharis’s
Mummy doubles up in agony as you do so. Of course,
the preserved package must be one of Akharis’s major
internal organs, removed by the priests of Sithera
centuries ago, as part of the embalming process. For
every earthenware jar you have that you can destroy,
deduct 1 point from Akharis’s stAMINA; for every two

119-120

jars smashed, you can also deduct 1 sxiLt point from
the Mummy. Now, while Akharis is weakened, will
you:

Attack him with fire?
Use the Waters of Life, if you have
them? Turn to 64

Turn to 330

Use a charm against him? Turn to 85
Try to remove his death-mask? Turn to 293
Try to destroy the sarcophagus? Turn to 257
Use your sword? Turn to 97

119

You do not have to wait long before you notice a
disturbance down in the valley. From nowhere, it
seems, a sandstorm suddenly blows up but, as quickly
as it appeared it dies down again; once the sand has
settled, you see a red-robed figure standing at the
entrance to the tomb. It is the same cultist you
encountered at the temple! He looks around for a
moment then disappears into the tomb. Swiftly you
descend into the valley and dash across the sand,
hoping to get there before the Giant Lizards notice
you. Test your Skill, adding 2 to the dice roll. If you
are successful, turn to 348. If you fail, turn to 306.

120
Before you leave the cavern, you set fire to the Demon’s
carcass and its web. Regain 1 Luck point for defeating
such a powerful opponent. Climbing back up the slope,
you can either enter the pillared hall (turn to 30) or return
to the passage before that and turn left (turn to 254)?

Cd Ed

ae :

~ 2,3 4
? 4
?.

121-124

121

Before you can reach her, the priestess casts a spell.
At once thick, green smoke begins to pour out of
one of the braziers and in its midst you can see a
phantasmal shape forming. The demonic spirit has
the body of a huge jackal, with two dog-like heads
sprouting from its shoulders. Behind them a mass of
serpent bodies writhe up along its back and two
scorpion tails lash menacingly behind it. Do you
have a Falcon Breastplate? If you have, turn to the
paragraph which is the same number as the number
of feathers on the falcon; if you haven't, turn to
107.

122
After days of trudging through the desert, your legs
are just not strong enough to get you out of the
chamber in time. You are only a metre from the
archway when the statue crashes down on top of you,
crushing the life out of your body.

123

In panic you sprint through the gorge — but, unfortu-
nately, not quickly enough. Several rocks hit you and
knock you to the ground, stunned (deduct 6 points
from your STAMINA). Turn to 89.

124
The tunnel you are following is soon joined by several
others from the left and right. Will you go straight on
(turn to 249), take the first to the left (turn to 182), the
second to the left (turn to 272), the third to the left
125-126

(turn to 195), the first to the right (turn to 301) or the
second to the right (turn to 69)?

125
You land the fatal blow as the Dracon brings down
one of the other men. The other two trappers fling
themselves on to their mounts and gallop away, scream-
ing in terror. ‘It seems I owe you my thanks again,’
says the creature, ‘and as a sign of my gratitude I shall
give you a gift.’ The great beast bounds up the side of
a boulder, launches itself into the air on its stubby
wings, and disappears from view. You do not have to
wait long, however, before the Dracon returns, holding
in its mouth an object which it drops at your feet. The
article is half a metre long and looks like a T-shaped
cross whose top arm consists of a loop. It is made of
solid gold and has twelve precious stones set into it. It
must be very valuable. ‘I hope you find this acceptable,’
the Dracon says, ‘and thank you again, human.’ With
that, the golden creature flaps its wings and rises into
the sky, leaving you alone again to continue on your
quest. Turn to 250.

126

Wondering what else to do, you cast the powders into
the magical flames of the brazier. Thick, choking,
green smoke pours from the brazier and you can see,
forming within it, a grotesque, demonic apparition.

127-129

The powders were used by the cult’s High Priestess to
commune with creatures of the Pit. However, before
the summoned hellspawn can kill you, the temple roof
caves in, burying you alive.

127
In one corner of the room you find a rounded granite
catch. You pull it and the doorway in front of you
slowly rises. Not waiting for it to open fully, you
throw yourself through the gap as the spiked roof
meets the floor of the chamber behind you. You have
escaped the Fangs of Sithera! Regain 1 Luck point.
Picking yourself up, you look around. A few metres
away is a T-junction; looking to the right, you can see
a painted door, while to the left the passage is swal-
lowed up in the darkness. Will you go to the left (turn
to 105) or to the right (turn to 315)?

128

Carved from a single piece of bone, the horn is well
made but is otherwise quite unremarkable. Return to

339-

129
Nemset is just too good for you — but then, she is an
expert and you are just a novice — and victory is soon
hers. Turn to 322.

E] [J

130-131

130

The passage soon ends at the entrance to a ruined
room — and now you cannot believe your eyes. Re-
flected in the light you are carrying is a huge pile of
jewels and gold coins! There is no way onwards
through the room, so will you enter and take some of
the treasure (turn to 84), leave the room and make
your way along the adjoining passage, if you have not
done so already (turn to 370), or retrace your steps
back along the tunnel past the door by which you
entered this part of the tomb (turn to 63)?

131
Keeping the hills to your right, you trek across the hot
sands of a desert which stretches as far as you can see
to the north. After almost an hour's journeying, you
catch sight of several hillocks of sand, each with a
large opening at its summit, close to the edge of the
hills. Could these possibly be entrances to Djaratian
tombs, although they are much closer than you would
have expected? Do you want to investigate the
mounds (turn to 39) or will you keep well clear of
them and proceed along the outskirts of the desert
(turn to 189)?

1352~-133

132

As you stride confidently along the avenue, the two
guards see you and, before you can attempt any bluff,
charge at you. They are grotesque to look at, with
human bodies but savage, bestial heads, and hands
gripping cruel pole-arms! Fight them both at the same
time.

SKILL STAMINA
First TEMPLE GUARD 8 8
Second TEMPLE GUARD 8 7

If you win, you enter the black pyramid; turn to 347.

133

1 believe that there is some such item in a hidden
toom close to here. Leaving this chamber, turn left,
then right, and the secret entrance is around there.’ If
you later find yourself in this passage, you may look
for the entrance to the hidden room by deducting 100
from the paragraph you are reading at the time then
turning to this new paragraph. ‘There is also a charm
that may be of use to you in the chamber of the
Golden Cobra,’ Rhehotep adds. Return to 286.

134-137

134
At a single word from the strange man, a huge Sabre-
toothed Tiger bounds through the doorway and across
the sand to attack you before you can reach its master.

Ey Bate” nd \ ‘yp, SABRE-TOOTHED TIGER  skILL 9 STAMINA8

Vy iy r eas ges i If you win, turn to 237.

yf iy q

at

7 blll ff
CULE

a4
aa //,

135

You think that fire may be an effective method of
attack against the Decayer. If you have some means of
setting the skeleton on fire, such as a torch, Yokka
Eggs or a skin of oil, and you want to try this, turn to
94. If you do not, or if you do not wish to waste a fire
source (you cannot use your light, if you have nothing
else, so leaving yourself in the darkness), turn to 258.

136
Creeping towards the huge golden cobra, you prepare
yourself for any devious traps that may have been set.
As you step on to the last flagstone in front of the
statue, it gives way beneath you. Test your Skill. If you
are successful, turn to 72; if you are not, turn to 206.

137
The Scorpion dextrously evades your defences, grabs
you in one of its claws and its sting whips forward. Its
normally fatal poison is injected into your bloodstream,
out fortunately you have built up a resistance to such
toxins (add 4 to your PoIsoN total and deduct 3
points from your STAMINA). Now return to 242 and
continue your battle with the monster.

y <i

138-139

138

The Mummy horde numbers fifteen in total. With
their atrophying hands outstretched in front of them,
the powerful undead advance towards you. Fortu-
nately, because Mummies are slow-moving, you can
fight them one at a time. Each Mummy has skILL 9
and STAMINA 12. (Remember to reduce the total by
any you may have already destroyed.) If any individual
battle lasts longer than nine Attack Rounds, turn to
236. If you manage to overcome all the shambling
undead, turn to 367.

139

If you have a Carved Bone Horn, you could try
blowing into it to scare off the Xoroa (turn to 26). If
you have anything else you may want to use, such as
a Yokka Egg or Firepowder, turn to 218 and use it
before you fight the two Warriors. If you have none
of the above, you will have to rely on cold steel once
more (turn to 218).

140-142

140
Moving across to the archway, you direct your light
into the room beyond. At the foot of a few steps, the
floor of the chamber is completely covered by the
glistening bodies of hundreds of asps, a small but
venomous species of snake! Only six metres away, an
iron box sits on top of a stone plinth. If you want to
attempt to cross the room to the iron box, turn to 22.
Otherwise, you have no choice but to leave this place;
turn to 54.

141
The scarab slides easily into the wall, as does the snake
after it. A grinding sound begins behind the wall and you
watch expectantly for the door to open. Turn to 104.

142
You have no idea where you are in the flooded maze.
Roll one dice. If you roll:

1 Turn to 369
2 Turn to 124
3 Turn to 272
4 Tum to 69
5 or6 Turn to 48

E} CJ

143-144

143
Because of its insubstantial, shifting form, blows from

your weapon pass straight through the Sand Golem
and will cause it only 1 sTAMINA point of damage (2
STAMINA points after a successful Test for Luck). How-
ever, hits from the magical creature are like punches
from an iron gauntlet covered in sandpaper and will
still inflict 2 STAMINA points of damage on you!

SAND GOLEM SKILL 8 STAMINA 9

If you reduce your opponent’s sTAMINA to zero, you
break the spell animating the Golem, and it becomes a
harmless heap of sand once more (turn to 183).

144
Something tells you to pull the Ankh out of your
backpack and brandish it in front of the statue. The
Ankh glows with power in your grasp. The statue’s
piercing gaze falls on the ancient artefact and it stops
in its tracks. Then the stone limbs stiffen once more
and the eldritch light of its eyes fades. Screaming with

145

fury, the cultists run towards you, intent on avenging
themselves by your demise. But the transformation of
the statue-is not over yet. With a terrible cracking
sound, fissures appear all over Sithera’s image and
pieces of it break off and fall to the floor of the
chamber. At the same time, great rifts form across the
walls of the dark temple and huge chunks of masonry
crash down all round you. The whole temple is starting
to collapse! The cultists forget about you and, more
concerned over their own plight, try to flee from the
crumbling building. Just as you are thinking of follow-
ing suit, two rotting hands reach out and grab you
round the neck. Unravaged by fire, Akharis lives
again! Breaking free of the Mummy’s grip, you must
now fight Akharis again.

AKHARIS SKILL 8 STAMINA 10

If you reduce Akharis’s sTAMINA score to 4 points or
less in five Attack Rounds or fewer, turn to 46. If you
do not, before your battle is even over the temple roof
falls in, crushing you under tonnes of rock.

Try as you may, you cannot find any hidden entrance,
and you start to think that the old ghost must have
been mistaken or confused after so many centuries. In
the end, in frustration, you give up the search. Return
tO 213.

i} C4
146

146

Trudging through the desolate landscape, you are
alone except for a solitary bird riding the warm ther-
mals above the hills. After an hour, you hear the
sound of hoofs in the distance behind you. Turning
around, you can make out a cloud of dust approaching
from the south-west. As its gets closer you can see
that riding towards you on a gaunt, haggard steed is a
tall, thin man wearing scraps of armour and carrying a
battered wooden shield and a wooden lance. He is
accompanied by a short, round man riding a mule.
You cannot avoid these two peculiar characters, so
you wait for them to come up to you.

‘Halt, stranger!’ the tall man hails you. He is wearing a
dented helmet and is sporting a drooping grey mous-
tache and a pointed beard; he also looks well on in
years ‘What are you doing in this region?’ he asks,
almost accusingly. You tell him that you are on a vital
mission and that time is of the essence. Test your Luck.
If you are Lucky, turn to 342. If you are Unlucky, turn
to 102.

147-148

147
Where will you go now: towards the Temple of

Sithera (turn to g2) or to the village (turn to 197)?

The door is not locked, and on the other side is a
regularly cut passageway leading both to left and to
right. The walls are covered with stylized carvings of
figures, human and semi-human, worshipping demonic
idols. You decide not to gaze for too long at some of
the scenes, so you move on swiftly. Will you go to
the left (turn to 180) or to the right (turn to 63)?

149-150

149
Many of the tombs have been broken open and

looted, while others are no more than piles of rubble.
More disturbingly, however, you notice that the major-
ity of those charnel-houses broken into have also had
their sarcophagi smashed open — and the bodies are
hissing. You begin to feel very uneasy, wandering
among the empty burial sites, and you decide to get
away from here as quickly as possible.

It is then that you hear dreadful moaning as a chorus of
dead voices announce their presence. Blocking your
way back is a horde of shambling, bandaged horrors.
Some still look quite human, while others have become
decayed, mouldering, bandage-wrapped skeletons. Will
you face the Mummies and try to force a way
through their ranks (turn to 303), or will you flee (turn
to 238)?

150
Lopar unrolls the Papyrus Scroll and scans the columns
of picture script. ‘Ah,’ he says, ‘do you know what you
have here?’ You shake your head. ‘This is a copy of
the hieroglyphic alphabet that was used, centuries ago,
by the people of Djarat.’ The Shaman explains to you
how to translate the hieroglyphs into Allansian. If you
ever come across any of this hieroglyphic script, you
will be able to translate it by subtracting 20 from the
number of the paragraph you are on at the time, then
turning to the new paragraph number. Now return to

194.

Cd Ce

151-153

151
The amulet you are wearing protects you from the
Evil Eye which the High Priestess is trying to use
against you. Before she can try anything else, you run
at the devious woman. Turn to 350.

152
The sun is low in the sky by the time you begin your
ascent. In this light, Spirit Rock takes on a deep red
hue and the veins of crystal sparkle as they catch the
sun's last rays. If you have a rope and grapple, turn to
333. Otherwise, turn to 391.

153

You have entered what appears to be a throne-room.
An ornate golden chair, inlaid with precious stones,
stands on a raised platform between two arches. Carved
in the wall next to the left-hand arch is the figure of a
cat-headed woman, and the exit to the right has that
of a man with a savage beast’s head. Propped beside
the throne are the skeletal remains of two Djaratian
guards, doubtless buried along with their king millennia
ago. You are determined to press on, since you feel
that you haven't much further to go. Will you leave
the throne-room via the right-hand archway (turn to
23) or the left-hand one (turn to 260)?

1547-157

154

‘Making your way onwards through the tomb, you

come to another junction. Will you veer off and follow
the new passage that leads to the right (turn to 213),
or will you stick to this corridor (turn to 190)?

155
Extracted from the White Lotus flower, this oil is clear
and sweet-smelling, and is non-combustible. There is
also not very much of it. Now return to 15.

156
You have chosen badly. By moving Black Three you
free White Four, which rapidly reaches the other end
of the board. You have lost. Turn to 322.

157
You press the next symbol and then the third. You
can hear a grinding of stone on stone and wait for the

door to open. Turn to 104.

Ey Cd

158-159

158

As you recover from the latest test of your mettle,
you begin to itch all over and, looking at your hands,
you can see scales forming on your skin! This mutation
must be an effect of the poison on the Caarth’s
weapons! The irritation gradually dies down and, as
you will no doubt soon discover, your affliction may
have its advantages. If you ever suffer damage from
edged weapons, such as swords or daggers, roll one
dice; on a roll of 5 or 6, you may reduce that damage
by 1 point, thanks to the hard scales covering your
body. Turn to 231.

159

Taking the sphere in your hands, you suffer no ill-
effects. You sense that you can see something inside
it, so you rub its surface to see if you can uncover
anything. Suddenly you feel dizzy and disorientated.
Your vision swims and the room spins round you until
you are no longer sure that you are still in the same
place. You close your eyes to try to stop the whirling
and then, feeling steadier, open them again. Turn to
347.

160-162

160
Mummies cannot move quickly because of their con-
stricting bandages, so will you run at them with your
sword drawn (turn to 51) or, if you can, will you use
something else against them first (turn to 103)?

161
1 am sorry, but I cannot give you what you desire,’
says the dog-headed Shaman. ‘Now lie down beside
this fire and let sleep take you.’ Turn to 76.

162
You are at a crossroads in the tunnels. Will you go left
(turn to 195), right (tum to 287) or straight on (turn to
100)?

I,

W :
he yi
- Ss a
Wie ee
U /
\
'
ip ‘ y ¢
i
1) - ~
\ ie x
\ ) ¢ Cs
* a 5
x f
~~ 1
i ‘, J
Na
= PRY
« >
:
“a

a!

qt
» .

163-165

163
The mummified animals stalk, prowl and slither to-
wards you. In the confines of the corridor only two
can attack you at the same time. (Any you have
already destroyed come from the top of the list.)

SKILL STAMINA
JACKAL MUMMY 5 5
TIGER MUMMY 8 8
COBRA MUMMY 6 4

If you win but the cobra bit you at all, add 1 to your
POISON score. Setting fire to the mummies with your
light, they are tumed to ashes in a few seconds; turn

to 147.

164

After days of wandering through the dust and heat of the
desert hills, it makes a pleasant change to walk across a
carpet of foliage between the trees at the edge of the pool.
The cool waters of the oasis look even more tempting and
refreshing now. Do you want to pause to drink here (turn
to 187), or will you leave the lush watering-hole to
explore the temple ruins straight away (turn to 346)?

165
When you push your weight against it, the stone door
opens with ease into a set of store-rooms. Several
recessed pantries lead off from a main corridor which
is decorated with paintings of servants bearing offer-
ings. Inside the alcoves are all kinds of food offerings,
from loaves of bread and pitchers of wine, to dried

C] Es]

166-167

meat and stuffed figs. After several thousand years,
most of the food left for Akharis to consume in the
afterlife has spoiled. However, if you want to spend
some time searching, you could probably find some
items that, preserved by the dry air of the tomb, are
still edible. If you want to look for provisions, turn to
210. Otherwise there is nothing else here, so you
leave and follow the other passage (turn to 12).

The process of removing the rocks from the blocked
entrance is very tiring as well as time-consuming.
Deduct 1 point from your sTAMINA then roll one dice.
If you roll an odd number, turn to 227. If the number
rolled is even, turn to 319.

‘What help do you require?’ the man asks. Will you
ask whether he can aid you in any way on your quest
(turn to 339) or ask him what he knows of the Shaman
(turn to 389)?

= SE aes. -—

—

168—170

168
Shaking the rattle, you advance on the Mummy —
who merely punches you in the stomach, causing you
to drop the charm. Deduct 2 points from your
STAMINA and turn to 2145.

169
Your feet touch the tunnel floor and you are safely
over the chasm. Having rested for a minute, you set
off again, until you come to a junction. Will you now
go to the left (turn to 40) or to the right (turn to 9)?

170
Having constructed your fire, you settle down to
sleep. Test your Luck. If you are Lucky, the night passes
peacefully (restore 2 STAMINA points) and in the morn-
ing, having consulted Jerran’s map once more, you
head north towards the temple (turn to 5). If you are
Unlucky, turn to 375.

171-173

171
After all you have had to face, your muscles are just
too weak to achieve the mighty task you need them
for. As the burial chamber fills with sand, you have to
abandon your attempt and consign yourself to death.
In minutes the chamber is full and your adventure is
over.

172
Before you can throw yourself out of the way, the
mud-ball rolls into you, knocking you to the ground.
Several of the stones embedded in it gash your arms
and legs (deduct 2 points from your sTAMINA). As
you struggle to stand up, the beetle attacks.

GIANT SCARAB BEETLE — sxitt7 ~=sTAMINA 8

For the first Attack Round of this battle reduce your
Attack Strength by 1 point as you are still getting to
your feet. If you defeat the overgrown insect, turn to
351.

473
You take a swig from the jar and swallow quickly.
You immediately double up in pain as a terrible burning

174-175

sensation assails your stomach. The plants the pungent
syrup is made from are toxic (deduct 4 points from

“our STAMINA and add 2 to your POISON score).
Now do you want to try rubbing some of the

syrup on your body instead (turn to 219) or drinking
some of the sweet-smelling liquid (turn to 82),

er will you leave the embalming chambers (tur to
379)?

174
Scrambling down from the safety of the rocky ledge,
vou walk slowly towards the beast. Hearing your
tootsteps, the Dracon turns its head in your direction

and lets out a terrifying roar. You notice that, with the

ceature’s struggling, the stakes holding the net down
are coming loose. Do you want to:

Show the beast you mean it no harm

and keep walking towards it? Turn to 196
Draw your sword and prepare to

defend yourself? Turn to 382
Make a run for it while you still

can? Turn to 273

175

‘Very well,’ the Sphinx intones. ‘Here is your first
question. Who designed and built the tomb of the evil
one whom you seek?’ If you know the name that is the
answer to the Sphinx’s question, convert it into a
number using the code A = 1, B = 2, C = 3 and so
on; then turn to the paragraph with the same number.
if you do not know the name, turn to 262.

ES) Ey
176-177

176
Before you can reach the Mummies, a cold shiver
passes over you. The statue of Sithera is glowering
down at you malevolently. Suddenly, a cultist leaps
into your path wielding a huge, curved blade! You
must fight him.

ELITE CULTIST SKILL 10 STAMINA 8

If the battle lasts more than six Attack Rounds, more
cultists surround you; turn to 338. If the battle lasts six
rounds or fewer, and you win, turn to 138.

177

Opening the darkwood door, you enter a square
room, on the far side of which an archway leads
into a second, darkened chamber from which you
can hear a hissing noise and the slithering of scaly
bodies.

However, before you will be able to reach that chamber
you will have to defeat the guardians of this outer
one. Dressed in faded Djaratian robes, two horrifying
figures are advancing towards you. In the flickering
light you can make out their skeletal human bodies,
and you recoil at the sight of their serpent heads, still
covered in patches of snake-skin, and their glowing
red eyes. If you would rather slam the door shut again
and escape from here immediately, turn to 54; other-
wise, you will have to fight Sithera’s minions at the
same time as they attack with taloned hands.

EE]

178
SKILL STAMINA
First DEMONIC
Second DEMONIC
SERVANT 7 7

If you succeed in winning two consecutive Attack
Rounds against either of these hellspawn, the spell
animating its body will be broken and it will collapse
into a pile of bones. If you defeat the Demonic
Servants, turn to 140.

The sun sets over the western horizon and you settle
down to rest between some rocks. The night is warm
and you are soon fast asleep . . .

You wake up with a start, hearing the snuffling sound
made by some large creature near by. You have just
unsheathed your sword when the beast comes into
view between the boulders. In the moonlight the
creature looks like a cross between a bear and an ape,
but it is larger than either. Smelling you, the Nandibear
turns to face you and lets out a blood-curdling howl.
It has decided that tonight it will feast on its favourite
food — human brains!

|

4

179-180

NANDIBEAR

If you manage to kill this ferocious monster, turn to
244..

SKILL 9 STAMINA 11

179

There are riches here beyond your wildest dreams!
Mesmerized by the treasure hoard before you, you are
only dimly aware of a rushing sound coming from the
main chamber. At last you look around — and see with
horror that the burial chamber is filling with sand,
pouring down from holes in the ceiling. It is already
knee deep as you wade back towards the door, where
you find that it has closed again and that there is no
handle on this side! In a matter of minutes the room will
be completely filled with the sands of the desert
above, burying you alive. Greed has proved to be
your downfall!

180
The passage continues for quite a way without chang-
ing direction. At last you come to a black-painted

181 182~183

door in the right-hand wall of the passage; a silver 182
handle protrudes from it. Do you want to try to open Eventually you reach a T-junction. Will you now go
this door (turn to 228) or walk further along the Bo the left (turn to 48) or to the right (turn to 124)?

passage (turn to 296)?

181

If you have some Firepowder or a Yokka Egg, you can
use either of them to distract the Cyclops; Test your
Skill if you do this and, if you are successful, reduce its
STAMINA score by the appropriate amount before
fighting it (turn to 248). If you do not have any such
special items, you will have to be satisfied with throw-
ing rocks at the beast. Test your Skill. If you are
successful, roll one dice. If you roll a 6, turn to 199; if
you roll any other number, deduct 2 points from the
Cyclops’ stamina before fighting it; turn to 248. Even
if you fail, you still attract the monster’s attention,
even though you do not wound it; turn to 248.

GePAAAE TE
of,*

183
There can be no doubt that the Golem was an emissary
of the Cult of the Cobra, sent to stop you reaching the
tomb. As the day grows hotter, you redouble your
efforts and force yourself onwards, determined to
thwart the evil sect’s plans. At last you find yourself
gazing over the top of a great rift in the hills. At the
bottom of the steep-sided, sand-blown valley you can
dearly see a dark rectangular opening in the side of a
diff, surrounded by large, carefully cut blocks of stone
bearing carved reliefs which are unmistakably Djaratian.
You have found the Tomb of Akharis! However, you
may still not be able to enter safely, since from your
vantage-point you can see two giant, four-legged lizards
standing close to the entrance. Both are saddled and
harnessed, but there is no sign of whoever or whatever
has ridden them here. Do you want to approach the
tomb immediately (turn to 276) or will you wait to see
whether any further developments ensue (turn to 119)?

EJ} CE]
184-186

184
You manage to trap White Four securely, but White
Two is left unchallenged and in three moves the game
is all over: Nemset has won. Turn to 322.

Yelling, you run at the leader of the cultists. At the
last moment he deftly sidesteps out of your way, and
you end up sprawling in the dirt. Test your Luck. If you
are Lucky, turn to 363. If you are Unlucky, turn to 55.

186
Standing on the plinth, clear of the snakes, you study
the box and find that it has a simple, hinged lid. It is

187-188

only after you have opened the iron casket that you
discover a problem: lying in the bottom of the box is a
long, rolled-up papyrus scroll and crawling all around
and over it are several deadly scorpions, each as big as
a man’s hand. If you want to take the scroll, Test your
Skill. If you are successful, you lift it out safely; turn to
200. If you fail, you disturb the scorpions and have to
endure their stings! Roll one dice and divide the result
by two (rounding fractions up), then add this number
to your POISON score; turn to 200. Alternatively, you
may decide against retrieving the scroll and so attempt
to leave the room; turn to 111.

187

Kneeling down at the water's edge, you cup your
hands together and, having dipped them in the pool,
gulp down a great mouthful. Almost instantly your
stomach is seized by a terrible burning pain. The water
of the oasis is poisoned! You writhe around in agony
for several minutes before the acute pain passes, but
you are left feeling weak and nauseous (deduct 4
points from your STAMINA and add 2 to your POISON
score). Once you feel able to continue again, you leave
the treacherous oasis to explore the ruined remains of
the temple. Turn to 346.

188
You run full pelt at one of the slabs of rock and hit it
with a painful crack, dislocating your shoulder! Dou-
bled up in agony, you can do nothing to halt the slow
but steady descent of the roof. Your adventure ends
here.

EY} oJ
189-191

189

You have not gone much further when suddenly a
bizarre creature appears over the crest of a sand-dune
in front of you. Its head and torso are human, but from
the waist down its lower body and legs are those of a
giant ant! The Xoroa, for that is what you are now
facing, stands two metres tall and is coloured a deep
reddish brown all over. The creature’s eyes are silver
and, instead of outer ears, two flexible, ant-like feelers
extend forward from the top of its head. This Xoroa
Warrior has been patrolling the area round its colony
and it makes angry clicking sounds at your intrusion.
Armed with a short spear, the guard attacks in-
stantly.

XOROA WARRIOR SKILL 10 STAMINA 11

If you win, turn to 331.

190

The further you progress, the more cracks and fissures
you notice covering the floor of the tunnel. Just as
you are considering turning back, the tunnel floor
gives way and, yelling, you fall through utter darkness
for several seconds. Your cry is cut short by the shock
of hitting water. Surfacing, you allow your body to be
carried along by the fast-moving current of a subterra-
nean river. Turn to 280.

191

Your sword drawn, you run into the room uttering a
shout. At the last instant, the cultist turns and prepares
to defend himself with the staff he is carrying.

Ey Ey

192-193

CULTIST SKILL 7 STAMINA 7
If you win, a swift search of the cultist’s clothes
reveals nothing of use to you except two meals’
worth of provisions (add these to: your Adventure
Sheet). Still no wiser as to the cultist’s actions, you
search the chamber but discover nothing. All you can
do now is continue along the tunnel; eventually it
turns right again, bringing you to the top of another
flight of stone steps that lead still deeper into the
tomb. You have no choice but to descend; turn to
216. :

192

The talisman starts to feel hot. Holding it up by its
chain, you see that the sun is glowing brightly. There
is a sudden flash, then a blazing beam of light shoots
from the amulet into the undead horde with devastat-
ing effect. Several of the Mummies immediately burst
into flames as their bone-dry wrappings ignite under
the heat of the beam. Roll one dice and add 2. Make a
note that this is the number of Mummies you have
already destroyed. The talisman’s power is expended,
but Akharis’s servants have already suffered the wrath
of the sun god! Now will you attack the remaining
undead with fire (turn to 18) or your sword (turn to
51)

193
Catching you off guard, the serpent evades your
feeble blows and strikes swiftly. In an instant its
mouth has closed round you and the monster swallows

—

194-196

you whole! Trapped inside its stomach, you quickly
suffocate before its powerful digestive acids begin
their work.

194
The Shaman can tell you more about an object only if
you have a number associated with it. If you do have
such an item, multiply the appropriate number by
thirty, then turn to the paragraph whose number is the
same as the total. After you have discovered more
about your object, you will be returned to this para-
graph. When you have finished showing Lopar your
items, he says to you, ‘Now lie down beside this fire
and let sleep take you.’ Turn to 76.

195
The only sound in the tunnels is the gentle lapping of
the water against the walls. Rounding a corner, you
come to a large intersection. Which way will you go
now?

First left? Turn to 301
Second left? Turn to 234
First right? Turn to 69
Second right? Turn to 217
Straight ahead? Turn to 142

196
Raising your hands in a gesture of peace, you move
closer to the Dracon, telling it that you mean it no
harm. You are somewhat surprised when the beast
snarls in reply, ‘Well, get this infernal net off me then!’

-} £2]

197-199

Will you do as the creature demands (turn to 21) or
leave it bound (turn to 382)?

197
At present you are wandering through the deserted
streets of a Djaratian workmen’s village where the
people who laboured to build the Necropolis once
lived. Their basic dwellings are in ruins now and there
is nothing of use to you here. However, as you are
returning to the central avenue through the City of
the Dead you come upon a craftsman’s workshop, stil!
almost intact. Looking inside, you notice an iron ring
attached to a flagstone in the middle of the room. If
you want to try to lift the flagstone, turn to 67.
Alternatively, you can leave the workmen's village
and explore the low stone buildings, if you haven't
already done so (turn to 56), or make for the Temple
of Sithera (turn to 92).

198
The inscription reads: Twice upon the door to knock,
thrice upon the door unlock. If you know how many
times you must knock upon the door, turn to the
paragraph with the same number. If you do not, you
will have to press on further into the tomb, turn to
374.

199
Unbelievably, your rock hits the Cyclops on its temple
in just the right place to kill it outright! Regain 1 Luck
point. Turn to 52.

200-201

200
Unrolling part of the scroll, you see that it is covered
m picture-writing and illustrations in the Djaratian
style. Scanning the first few columns of hieroglyphs,

and utilizing your growing knowledge of the ancient

Djaratian language, you translate them to discover
their meaning. It appears that the scroll you have in
sour hands is an ancient Djaratian ‘Book of the Dead’,
a guide to the journey through the underworld contain-
amg spells to aid dead people making the journey and
formation such as the fact that they must face thirteen
aazards on their journey. This could prove very useful.
Rolling up the scroll again, you put it in your backpack.
Tum to 111.

201
Your sixth sense screaming danger, you throw yourself
torward just as the floor gives way beneath you. You
land heavily just on the far side of the pit-trap, winded
but alive. The bottom of the deep, sheer-sided pit is
alled with cruelly pointed metal spikes! You had a
close escape indeed! You continue on your way ex-
tremely cautiously. The passage soon turns to the
right and, following it, you come upon an archway,
surrounded by carvings, in the left-hand wall. If you
tollowed a cultist into the tomb, turn to 43. If you did
not, turn to 71.

202-203

202

Hearing a clicking sound, you look along the length of
the room. At its far end, standing in front of a grand
set of double doors, are two terrifying creatures. They
appear to be a cross between humans and gigantic
scorpions, with the heads and torsos of men but the
bodies and deadly stings of desert arachnids. Carrying
polearms, these are the demonic Accursed, once human
but now servants of the Demon Prince. If you are to
gain access to the third level of the tomb, you will
have to vanquish them in battle. Because of their great
size, fight the Accursed one at a time.

SKILL STAMINA
First ACCURSED 10 10
Second ACCURSED 9 11

If either of the Accursed wins an Attack Round, roll
one dice. On a roll of 5 or 6, instead of hitting you
with their polearms, they strike you with their stings
‘add 1 to your PoIsoN score as well as losing 2 points
from your STAMINA). If you overcome the demonic
guards, turn to 153.

203

Evading the Mummy’s flailing arms, you grab the
death-mask and pull it from Akharis’s head, flinging it
to the ground. At once the Mummy howls with pain
and its movement seems to become slower. Your
action has cost Akharis 1 skILL point and 2 STAMINA
points of damage (remember to make a note of the
number of points of damage Akharis has already

Cy Ee]

204-206

suffered). You now have no choice but to ‘fight the
Mummy. Turn to 97.

204
You find yourself walking along a rectangular passage-
way cut into the rock of the cliff. Daylight entering
from outside illuminates the tunnel for only a short
way — beyond that there is nothing but darkness. If
you have a permanent light-source, say a lantern,
torch or lamp, turn to 307. If you have no means to
light your way, turn to 233.

205

This is a foolish move which leaves the way clear for
White Four. Nemset wins the game in just two moves.
Turn to 322.

e_—~
=

206
Your reflexes are not quick enough. Helplessly you
plunge into the pit, the bottom of which is filled with
bubbling acid. No one escapes from the Venom of the
Cobra!

207-210

207
You have almost reached the cave entrance when you
fall. There is no way you could survive a fall from
such a height. When you hit the ground, your body is
smashed to pieces on the boulders at the foot of Spirit
Rock. Your adventure is over.

208

Keeping out of sight of the guards, you creep round
the side of the pyramid and soon discover an alterna-
tive way into the temple. There is a small hole, half-
way up the side of the pyramid several metres above
you. You could easily scramble up to it — but it could
be a trap. Do you want to risk it and climb up to the
hole (turn to 77), or will you use the main entrance
after all (turn to 132)?

209
The small pyramid has been carved out of a piece of
quartz crystal; it refracts the light from the sun inside
it into a myriad colours. Now return to 15.

210
Your search is quite fruitful and you manage to accumu-
late enough food for 4 meals (add these to your
Adventure Sheet). Preparing to leave the offerings cham-
bers, you turn back towards the stone door. With a

[:} Ee
2i1

cracking sound, fragments of plaster start flaking off
one of the wall-paintings. You watch, startled, as a
life-size figure from the mural begins to emerge from
the wall, assuming a three-dimensional form as it does
so. The Djaratians believed that figures of servants
painted in the tombs would magically come to life to
serve the dead king. This is exactly what is happening
now as the food store’s guardian prepares to deal with
a thief — youl

TOMB GUARDIAN SKILL 7 STAMINA 6

If you kill the servant; at your final blow the guardian
crumbles into a heap of plaster-dust, allowing you to
leave. Turn to 12.

211

You try to leap out of the way but the lance strikes
you in the middle of your chest, pushing you to the
ground (deduct 3 points from your sTAMINA). Un-
sheathing his rusted weapon, the man bears down on
you, shouting, ‘Die, Demon! You cannot prevail against
the honour of Don Huan Fernandez, Knight of Vastille!’
For the first Attack Round, reduce your Attack Strength
by 1 point because you are lying on the ground.

FERNANDEZ SKILL 7 STAMINA 7

If you reduce your opponent's sTAMINA score to 3
points or less, turn immediately to 253.

212-215

212
Because you have the element of surprise, the cultist is
prevented from using any trickery against you, and
you gain an unopposed strike. Then the cultist snarls
and turns on you.

CULTIST SKILL 6
If you win, turn to 36.

STAMINA 5

213
Trudging through the deathly stillness of the tomb,
you wonder what other surprises and horrors await
you before your quest comes to an end. The tunnel
tums right and you continue to walk along it for
several metres. Turn to 254.

214
As your opponent falls, so does Jerran’s. Before you
can stop him, the third cultist turns tail and flees
towards the markets. What will you do now? Will you
pursue the cultist and try to stop him before he can
wam the rest of the sect (turn to 394), leave Rimon
immediately, with the intention of heading the cultist
off on the way to the tomb (tum to 242), or ignore
the cultist and visit the markets to prepare for your
quest (turn to 112)?

215
You now have only three options open to you, since
Akharis is upon you. You can either attack him with
your sword (turn to gy), try to remove his death-mask
(tum to 293) or try to destroy the sarcophagus (tum
to 257).
216-218

216

As you descend the steps you are amazed at the
amount of heat, transmitted through the sand and rock
of the desert above, in the tomb. Through your con-
stant exertions, beads of sweat start to break out on
your skin. The staircase leads into a low-ceilinged,
square chamber, on the far side of which is a fine
wooden door with gilded handles.

However, resting against the wall to the left of the
door is a grotesque, mouldering, human skeleton, still
wrapped in rotting clothes. The air round the corpse is
heavy with disease and decay, and sunk deep in their
sockets are two vacant, sickly yellow eyes. Cautiously
you step towards the door and immediately the
skeleton comes to life and lurches jerkily towards you,
its claws raised. You are going to have to fight the
foul Decayer! Will you use your sword (turn to 258)
or some other weapon (turn to 135)?

217
All the tunnels look very much alike. Coming to a
junction, will you now take the first to the left (turn to
301) or the second to the left (turn to 182), or turn to
the right (turn to 272)?

218
You have strayed inside the boundary of the land
round a Xoroa colony which the two Warriors you are
now facing have been guarding. You must fight the
ant-men at the same time.

Ey Ee
219-221
SKILL STAMINA
First XOROA WARRIOR 10 11
Second XOROA
WARRIOR 10 10

If you manage to defeat both of them, turn to 331.

219
The syrup is used by embalmers to toughen and
preserve the body as part of the mummification pro-
cess. Rubbing it on your skin toughens it so that from
now on you may reduce any external physical injuries
you may suffer, say in battle, by 1 sTAMINA point.
However, this toughening makes your skin less flexible
and so hampers movement (reduce both your current
and Initial sxitt by 2). Now will you:

Drink some of the syrup? Turn to 173
Drink from the other jar? Turn to 82
Leave this place? Turn to 379

220
Putting the horn to your lips, you blow hard. A
resonating blast echoes across the hills but does nothing
to stop the Golem’s advance. A gritty fist strikes you in
the face (deduct 2 points from your sTAMINA). Swiftly
you draw your sword, ready to retaliate. Turn to 143.

221
Just in case the undead Vizier’s insane loyalty should
bring him back to life once more, you set fire to his
corpse. Having done so, you do not delay in leaving

—________________H_H _™|e | 0) nen a ee

222~224

the treasure chamber, but on your way out you grab a
nandful of gems, worth between 3 and 8 Gold Pieces
roll one dice and add 2 to the number rolled) and a
Bronze Rattle — a sacred device used in religious
ceremonies. Now turn to 105.

222
Desperately you hack at the swarm with your sword,
ying to prevent the wasps from stinging you. Fight
cne insects as if they were one opponent.

SWARM SKILL 9 STAMINA 7

Because the swarm is made up of many creatures, it
will be difficult to injure, so for the duration of this
cattle you must reduce your Attack Strength by 1
point. If the swarm wins an Attack Round, deduct 2
points from your STAMINA and add 1 to your POISON
score. If you win, tum to 302.

223

So, you managed to retrieve the Serpent’s Eye from
che tomb,’ the priestess says with a voice like velvet.
mm that case, obey my will. Kneel!’ You are unable to
resist. The evil artefact round your neck makes you
susceptible to the will of the Demon Prince’s minions.
You remain motionless as the life-force is drawn from
sour body so that Akharis may live again.

224
There is nothing remarkable about the key, and Cranno
sells you he has never found a lock that it fits. Return

10 339.

Gg
225-227

225
Time will wait no longer. As you watch, the ghost of
Rhehotep fades. ‘May the good gods of Djarat go
with you, brave adventurer ...’ is the last thing you
hear him say before his spirit departs this world at last.
Turn to 154.

226
Dusk falls and still you have not sighted the temple.
Here, on the fringes of the Desert of Skulls, the nights
are as freezing as the days are scorching. If you have a
Yokka Egg, turn to 83. Otherwise, do you want to
build a fire to keep you warm, assuming you have
some means of lighting one (turn to 170), or would
you rather not risk attracting the attentions of any
nocturnal hunters (turn to 31)?

227
As you clear away the rubble, you are interrupted in
your labours by the arrival of one of the tomb’s
wandering guards. With lifeless, rotting flesh, long
dank hair and tatters of Djaratian garments clinging to
its decaying flesh, the Tomb Stalker stumbles towards
you, moaning. If you do not want to fight the deathly
guard, you can stop clearing the passageway and run
back along the tunnel, following it past the cedar-
wood doors (turn to 254). Otherwise, you will have to

fight.
TOMB STALKER

If the Tomb Stalker wins two consecutive Attack
Rounds, it will grab your neck in its powerful hands

SKILL 8 STAMINA 6

228

and strangle you, causing damage equal to the roll of
one dice! Each Attack Round after this, you must strike
successfully to free yourself from its grip or take the
same extra damage again. If you overcome the undead
guard, turn to 3109.

228
The door opens into an antechamber which is decor-
ated with painted reliefs of the Djaratians at war with
various nations and desert tribes. Beyond this room,
through an archway, is another, smaller one. In the
centre of this second room stands a plain alabaster
pedestal on which, glinting in the light you are carry-
ing, you see a small figurine of a cat made from jet. As
you consider taking this treasure, you become aware
of the two life-size statues of men, armed with spears,
standing one either side of the archway. Do you want
to enter the inner chamber and take the cat (turn to
251) or will you leave this room and return to the
passage outside (turn to 296)?

229-231

229

Entering the passageway, there is a sudden drop in
temperature and you cannot help feeling that your
light does not penetrate the darkness as well as it
should. Without warning, a huge claw sinks into your
back, tearing your flesh to the bone. Screaming in
pain, you stare, horrified, as a great ball of fire comes
hurtling down the corridor and engulfs you. From
amid the flames, a spear-wielding corpse thrusts its
weapon between your ribs, and all around cruel faces
laugh at your distress. Can this really be happening?
Test your Skill. If you succeed, turn to zo. If you fail,
turn to 32.

230

You press the vulture symbol next and then the snake.
There is a moment of tense anticipation as you wonder
whether you have made the right choice, then the wall
swings open. Stepping through the secret door, you
find yourself in a short corridor which ends after only
ten metres at a bizarre portal carved to resemble a
gaping serpent’s mouth. Between the fangs, pin-pricks
of silver light swirl within a black void. There is no
sign of the cultist, and the portal is the only way
forward, so will you enter it (turn to 347) or retrace
your steps to the original tunnel, which turns right
and leads you deeper into the tomb down a flight of
steps (turn to 216)?

231

As you search the Snakemen’s bodies, you wonder
what they are doing in the tomb. The Giant Lizards

Cd EI

2352-253

you encountered must have been their mounts. It is
likely that the Caarth were investigating goings-on
here because of the proximity to their lands and the
connection with the Demon Prince, Sith, whom they
worship. These two can only have been scouts from a
larger party, as they are carrying nothing of use to
you in terms of provisions or treasure.

Leaving the dead Caarth, you make your way to the
far side of the pillared hall and leave through an
archway, which is the only exit. You enter another
short passage which ends at a T-junction. Both routes
look exactly the same, so far as you can see by your
light, so will you take the left- (turn to 396) or the
right-hand tunnel (turn to 75)?

232
In the alcove is a crystal orb, resting on a golden
stand, an alabaster bowl containing brightly coloured
powders, and a flask, fashioned in the form of a viper,
containing some black liquid. What will you try to use
to aid your escape?

The crystal orb? Turn to 58
The coloured powders? Turn to 126
The viper’s venom? Turn to 297

233
You proceed carefully along the tunnel into the all-
enveloping blackness. Slowly edging forward, you
find yourself at the top of a flight of steps and begin
to make your way down. Totally blind in the darkness,

2347-236

you do not see the missing steps and, losing your
footing, fall the rest of the way down the steep, very
long staircase. Lying at the bottom of the steps,
stunned, you are only dimly aware of the sound of
footsteps and a sibiliant hissing before a poisoned
blade is plunged into your heart. You perish horribly
in the darkness. Your adventure is over.

234
You pass under a section of roof covered with thick
slime and, as you do so, some drips on to you.
Unfortunately the vile gunk is acidic (deduct 2 points
from your STAMINA). Now where will you go?

Turn to 182
Turn to 195
Turn to 369

Left, then left again?
Left, then straight on?
Straight on?

235
Crouching low against the top of the cliffs, you encoun-
ter no hostile denizens of these parts and, once past
the gorge, you follow a stony track down towards the
lower ground and rejoin your original path. Turn to

go.

236
While you battle on, the other Mummies slowly sur-
round you and grab you with their decaying hands.
Unable to move, you are totally helpless as the High
Priestess casts her spell, draining your life-force to
resurrect Akharis. Your adventure is over.

Ee} Ed
237-239

237

Throwing aside his mask, the man runs down the steps
from the platform and falls to his knees beside the
prone body of his dead pet, tears streaming down his
face. Then he turns to you and, between great sobs,
manages to splutter, ‘I’m sorry. Oh please have mercy.
I don’t mean anyone any harm; I just like to be left in
peace.’ Seeing the man in such a state, you are filled
with remorse and leave the ruined theatre before you
cause Cranno any more grief. Turn to 8.

238

You turn tail and run into the labyrinthine depths of
the tomb district. Rounding a corner, you almost run
straight into another group of Mummies, then a third
group emerges from a side-street. Surrounded, you do
your best to fend off the lumbering undead but, even
with fire as a weapon, you are eventually overcome
by the sheer force of their numbers. Your adventure is
over.

239
You have not travelled far along the passage when
you come to a junction: another low corridor leads
away to the left. Do you want to follow this new
tunnel (turn to 305) or would you prefer to stick to
your present route (turn to 254)?

240-241

240
While you are lighting the torch, the wasps can sting
you unopposed (deduct 2 points from your sTAMINA
and add 1 to your POISON score). However, wielding
the blazing torch, you will be able to harm the swarm
more effectively.

SWARM SKILL 9 STAMINA 7

Because you are using an unusual weapon, you must
reduce your Attack Strength by 1 point for the dura-
tion of this battle. If the swarm wins an Attack Round,
as well as losing 2 STAMINA points you must add 1 to
your POISON score. If you overcome the swarm, turn
to 302.

If you are wearing a Sun Talisman, multiply the
number of light rays projecting from it by eight, then
tum to the paragraph with the same number as the
total. Anything else you may have has no effect on
these undead; so will you fight them with fire (turn to
18) or with your sword (turn to 51)?

Te} EY

243-244

scorpion and strike its claw. Releasing its grip on

Jerran’s body, the grotesque creature turns to attack
you.

GIANT SCORPION SKILL 8

Each claw can attack independently, so conduct this
fight as if you were up against two opponents, each
with a skit of zo. If at any time the Scorpion’s Attack
Strength is 22, turn at once to 137. If you win, turn to
345.

STAMINA 10

243

It is a close-run thing, but you just beat Nemset to the
end of the board. You have won! ‘I congratulate you,
adventurer,’ Nemset says graciously. ‘For your success
you deserve a prize.’ The ghost directs you to a
golden casket inside the tomb. Opening it, you find an
amulet on a golden chain, representing the sun, with
twenty-four stylized rays of light projecting from it.
There is also a small, decorative glass bottle, full of
water, etched with the Djaratian symbol for life. ‘Take
the Sun Talisman and the Waters of Life,’ says the
princess, ‘and may they help you thwart the evil one.’
If you ever want to drink the Waters of Life (but not
when you are in the middle of a combat), make a note
of the paragraph you are reading at the time, then turn
to 355. For now, add your new possessions to your
Adventure Sheet, then turn to 322.

244
The rest of the night passes without incident, and in
the morning you are able to inspect the body of the

245-247

Nandibear. The creature still lies where it fell and you
can make out its tracks among the rocks. Its lair cannot
be far away, and you wonder what treasures could be
hidden there. If you want to follow the Nandibear's
tracks in the hope of finding its lair, tun to 117. If you
would rather not make this diversion from your jour-
ney, turn to 337.

245
Unfurling ‘the scroll, you scan the columns of hiero-
glyphs for a spell to help you. As you do so, Akharis
grabs you and hurls you to the floor (deduct 4 points
from your STAMINA). Dropping the scroll, you prepare
to fight; turn to 215.

246
You side-step swiftly so that the mud-ball rolls past
you harmlessly. Angrily, the beetle scuttles forward to
attack.

GIANT SCARAB BEETLE _ skILL7 STAMINA 8

If you overcome the overgrown insect, turn to 351.

247
Proceeding along the tunnel, you are startled to hear
the sound of rushing water in the distance. The noise
increases in volume until you come to the edge of a
precipice. Shining your light into the darkness, you see
that the crevasse is several metres wide and that the
tunnel continues on the other side. Your illumination
also picks out the craggy sides of the chasm but does
not reach as far as the water you can hear roaring

CE

248-250

below. Somehow you will either have to get across to
the other side of the crevasse or risk jumping into the
underground river. Will you:

Attempt to jump across the chasm? Turn to 292

Use a rope and grapple, if you have
one, to swing across?

Jump into the river?

Turn to 271
Turn to 386

248
Yelling, you charge at the Cyclops and, before it can
react, sink your blade into its leg. Bellowing with pain
and rage, the monster forgets Fernandez and turns all
its fury on you.

CYCLOPS SKILL 10

If you win, turn to 52.

STAMINA 10

249
The tunnel comes to an end in a flooded room.

Manacled to a wall is a human skeleton and hanging
from its neck is an obsidian pendant, which you may
take if you wish. Leaving the room, you return to the
intersection. Will you take the first to the right (turn
to 195), the second to the right (turn to 272), the third
to the right (turn to 182), the first to the left (turn to
69), the second to the left (turn to 301) or go straight
ahead (turn to 142)?

250
You trudge on through the heat of the day, further
into the rugged hills. The only vegetation that grows

251

in this hot region is the occasional scrubby bush and
fleshy, green, thick-stemmed succulent covered in
spines. You notice one of these plants growing close
to the track you are following. Some species are very
nutritious, but you do not know if this is such a one.
Do you want to cut yourself a piece of the plant to eat
(turn to 110) or will you continue on your way (turn
to 11)?

251
You pass through the archway between the statues
unhindered and lift the jet figurine from the pedestal
without triggering any lethal device. It is only when
you approach the archway again that the nature of the
trap here becomes clear. Creaking, the two statues
move from their sentry-posts of centuries and advance
towards the tomb robber who would steal the treasure
they guard. Standing in the archway, you may fight
the statues one at a time.

SKILL STAMINA
First STATUE 8 8
Second STATUE 8 9

If you win, the second statue shatters as you lay your
final blow. Stowing the Jet Cat in your backpack, you
leave the room and continue along the passageway in
search of further treasures. Turn to 296.

Ey EF]

252

252

Lying at the bottom of the sarcophagus, among a few
scraps of stained, torn bandages, is an amulet in the
form of a stylized eye (you may take it if you wish).
So where can Akharis’s body be? The Cult of the
Cobra must have moved it from the tomb and taken it
elsewhere. Having braved the tomb’s dark depths, you
are overwhelmed with dejection, fearing that your
perilous journey may have been a complete waste of
time! You are roused from your state of self-pity by a
rushing sound. Looking up, you see in horror that the
burial chamber is filling with sand which is pouring
down from holes in the ceiling. The door slams shut
and there is no handle on the inside! The last trap has
been sprung and, if you cannot find a way out soon,
you are going to be buried alive. Test your Skill. If you
succeed, turn to 109. If you fail, turn to 42.

253-254

253
‘Retreat! Retreat!’ the old man yells, acknowledging
your superior swordsmanship and breaking off his
attack. Pulling on his steed’s reins, Fernandez gallops
away north-eastwards into the hills, followed by Gordo
on his mule. Bewildered by the old man’s irrational
actions, you watch as the two figures dwindle into the
distance before continuing your journey on foot. Turn

to 24.

254
Following the passage, you-find yourself in a small
square room with a door in each of its four walls. As
you stand in the middle of the room, considering
which way to go next, there is a loud grating sound
and four great slabs of stone drop down, blocking all
the exits! You run over to one blocked doorway and
hammer on it with your fist. As if things were not bad
enough already, now you hear a deep rumbling sound
and the roof of the chamber begins to descend as
great metal spikes emerge from holes cut into it. You
were not quick enough in leaving this room, so now
you will die by the Fangs of Sithera! What are you
going to do to prevent such a grisly fate? Will you:

Turn to 188
Turn to 66
Turn to 362

Ram one of the doors?
Try to jam the descending ceiling?
Search for a release mechanism?
——S =

=

ee LL. I TAN

——

I"

YY

y

]

44

Ys
y"

ANN ARM

255-257

255

As soon as you touch the statue, a magical transforma-
tion takes place and the golden image grows until it is
two and a half metres tall. The huge crocodile-head
looks down at you then raises a great golden fist,
ready to beat you into the ground. Do you have a
Gold Piece or something else made of gold among
your possessions? If you have, turn to 78. If you
haven't, turn to 275.

256

Looking through the telescope, you are amazed by
how close distant features appear. In the east, a single
high pinnacle of rock juts up from among the hills into
the sky. A massive boulder seems to be balanced on
top of it and you can make out shining, swirling
patterns on its surface. Surely this must be Spirit Rock!
Tuming to the north, your eye is caught by the
reflection of the sun on water. Surrounding the oasis is
a group of palm trees and next to it, lying in tumbled
ruins, is the temple you seek. Turn to 235.

257
To reach the sarcophagus, you will first have to get
past Akharis himself. The foul Mummy reaches out for
you with bandaged talons. (Remember to deduct any
points of damage you have already inflicted on

Akharis.)
AKHARIS SKILL 13 STAMINA 25

As soon as you have fought four rounds of combat,
you get past the lurching undead horror and run up

Cy Ee
258—259

the dais steps to the sarcophagus. But how will you
destroy it? There are several large cracks across the
coffin, but you feel sure that striking it with your sword
will have little effect. If you have some Firepowder you
could use, turn to 373. Otherwise, you decide to try to
push the great stone coffin off the dais, hoping that the
fall will break it. Roll four dice; if the total is greater
than your STAMINA score, you are not strong enough
to carry out such a herculean feat (turn to gz). If the
total is less than or equal to your STAMINA score, you
succeed in pushing the sarcophagus off the dais so that
it hits the floor with devastating results (turn to 373).

258
Reeking of death and putrefaction, the undead Decayer
advances towards you, fearless of your weapon.

DECAYER SKILL 7 STAMINA 5

Unknown to you, while you were fighting you have
been infected by the near-invisible, disease-ridden
spores released by the Decayer (so, if you win, add 4
to your POISON score); turn to 148.

259

‘Run for it!’ you shout to Jerran, and the two of you
charge the lone cultist behind you. Knocking him to
the ground, the way along the street ahead is clear as
far as the markets. Once among the crowds, you
should be able to lose your pursuers easily. Suddenly
you hear a humming sound as two throwing-stars fly
from the cultists’ hands and strike you and Jerran in
the back (deduct 2 points from your sTAMINA). You

|

260-261

stumble to the ground and the cultists are upon you.
Turn to 68.

260

As you walk towards the left-hand exit, the guards’
bones rise jerkily from their posts and advance towards
you. They will reach the archway before you do, so, if
you want to avoid clashing with the guards you could
change direction and run through the other exit (turn
to 229). If you are intent on passing through this
archway, you will have to fight.

SKILL STAMINA
First SKELETAL GUARD 8 6
Second SKELETAL
GUARD 7 6

If you win, turn to 371.

261

‘Youareno Demon,’ he says, looking slightly bewildered.
‘Perhaps that black-hearted scoundrel Zanmethees did
not send you.’ You assure Fernandez that he did not and,
convinced at last, the old knight apologizes profusely for
his previous behaviour. In order to make amends he offers
you a purse containing 6 Gold Pieces. If you accept this
gift, add the treasure to your Adventure Sheet. Now that
the Cyclops is dead, the cowardly Gordo, Fernandez’s
manservant, emerges from his hiding place to tend his
master’s wounds; you waste no more time in returning to
your original route towards the temple. Turn to 226.

[-} EJ

262-263
262

The Sphinx speaks again, but still you do not know what
to say in reply. There is a tense moment of silence, then
the great creature roars, bounding towards youacross the
hall. Bewildered, you unsheath your sword to defend
yourself. Unfortunately, your earthly weapon has no
effect against this agent of the gods of Djarat, whereas its
terrible claws soon tear you apart. Your adventure is over.

263
The stone whistles past your head, missing it by just a
few centimetres. Unperturbed, the mutated ant-men
move in to the attack. Will you draw your sword to
defend yourself (turn to 218) or will you look for
something else to use against the Xoroa (turn to 139)?

264-267

264
The blast is just too much for the ages-old tunnel; the
roof caves in on top of you and crushes the life out of
your body.

265
The small round bottle is full of what appears to be
swirling black smoke, giving it its colour. The glass
stopper is sealed with hard-baked clay. If you ever
want to break the seal and open the bottle, turn to 398
(make a note of this). Now, however, return to 339.

266

You weaken under the priestess’s relentless stare.
Deduct 6 points from your sTAMINA and 2 points
from your skitt. However, somehow you manage to
keep moving and stagger towards the dais in order to
attack the priestess. Seeing you approach, she breaks
her concentration and you are released from the
strength-sapping gaze. Turn to 350.

267
The fireball misses your head by mere centimetres,
exploding into a pillar. Before they can try anything
else, you run at your reptilian attackers with your
sword drawn; turn to 50.

PE

268-269

268

You slide to a stop close to a large web, which is
made up of a tangle of shimmering, sticky, silver
strands, in a high cavern. You scramble quickly to
your feet as the web’s maker descends from the roof
of the cave. Facing you is a massive grey-black spider,
almost five metres across. Instead of having the head
of an arachnid, as you would expect, its hairy body is
surmounted by a demonic head with a malevolent
travesty of a human face, and wearing a Djaratian
head-dress. As the diabolical creature stalks towards
you, there is no doubt in your mind that your oppo-
nent is a Death Spider.

DEATH SPIDER SKILL 12 STAMINA 9

The Death Spider will try to bite you when it attacks.
If it wins an Attack Round, as well as losing 2
STAMINA points you must roll two dice. If the result is
less than or equal to your POISON score, turn to 59. If
it is greater, add 1 to your POISON total and continue
your battle. If you win against this awesome adversary,
turn to 120.

\
z x
‘ } N\
a ait ;
n+ =
|
nat | 1!
“Sued
\
. > i
. ‘
Wt!
‘
> th Weg
AS i; F
J is ye oa =
7 25 ( ‘
Se \ v
y ; ae 2
“ ‘ ) *
YY we
fi - vs “yt
7S ~.
vs r.
ee

Ah
A

N
ca

269
There are two ways in which you can fight the
Mummies with fire. The first is to use a torch, if you
have one, as a weapon. If you do this, turn to 325 and
fight as normal; however, if you win an Attack Round,
your weapon will inflict 4 sTAMINA points of damage
rather than the usual 2. (If you choose this course of
action, you must also reduce your Attack Strength by
1 point because you are using an unfamiliar weapon.)

Cl) Ey

270-272

The second method involving fire is to throw a fire
source — such as a lamp, a Yokka Egg or a burning
skin of oil — at the corpse. Roll one dice and add 2:
this is the number of undead you will have to get past.
For each Mummy you attack in this way, Test your
Skill; if you succeed, the Mummy perishes in flames. If
you destroy all your opponents this way, you break
through the Mummies’ ranks and run to the shrines
(turn to 295) or the Temple of Sithera (turn to 395). If
you fail to stop all the Mummies this way, or if you
run out of fire sources, turn to 325 but ignore the
instruction there to roll dice.

270
You take the sandstone statuette from your backpack
and show it to the Shaman. He explains that the deity
it represents is Assamarra, the now almost forgotten
God of the Sands, Return to 194.

271
After a few vain attempts, you manage to secure the
grapple over a rocky outcrop above the tunnel entrance
opposite and, gripping the rope for dear life, you
swing across the crevasse. Turn to 169.

272
Suddenly there is a commotion in the water round
you: you are being attacked by several vicious Snapper-
fish. Roll one dice, add 6 and divide the total by 2
(rounding fractions up) to see how many you have to
fight. Each Snapperfish has skiLL 6 and sTAMINA 2,
and the bite from such a creature does 3 points of

|
|

273-274

damage to your STAMINA on a roll of 4—-6 on one
dice. If you survive your encounter, you go on. Roll
one dice. If you roll 1-3, turn to 287; if you roll 4-6,
turn to 69.

273
Desperately you sprint away through the boulders.
Test your Luck. If you are Lucky, you escape safely;
turn to 250. If you are Unlucky, turn to 106.

274
The surface of the gaming-table is divided into fifty
squares and at either end is a row of counters; one set
is black and one set white. The whole set-up looks like
this:

Nemset explains that the idea of the game is to get
one of your pieces to the other end of the board; the
first person to do so wins the game. Pieces can move
one or two squares forward at a time but in no other
direction. However, if, on your turn, your way is
blocked by a piece directly in front of yours, you may

CJC
275

move your piece just one square into an empty space
on either side (but not backwards); this is the only
time when you can move sideways. A good tactic is
to try to trap your opponent's pieces so that they
cannot move. Nemset chooses to play white and
directs you where to move her pieces, while you are
black. White goes first. Test your Skill, adding 2 to the
dice roll. If you succeed, turn to 53. If you fail, turn to
129.

275

You are unable to harm the Sentinel of the Shrine, but
the crocodile-headed guardian pounds your body with
its great fists, knocking you back across the chamber
(deduct 5 points from your sTAMINA). Test your Luck.
If you are Lucky, you manage to open the door and
escape from the shrine (the Sentinel does not follow
you once you are outside its chamber); turn to 284. If
you are Unlucky, the metal giant blocks your way out
of the sanctum and exacts the punishment reserved for
all thieves. Defenceless against its attacks, your adven-
ture ends here.

276-297

276
You descend into the valley and cautiously creep
towards the entrance of the tomb, trying to avoid the
attentions of the lizards. Test your Skill, adding 2 to
the dice roll. If you are successful, turn to 348. If you
fail, turn to 306.

277
You scramble down ‘the slope until you are standing
in the sandy arena in front of the platform. The facade
of the low building is decorated with the busts of
people — or possibly of gods — standing in recessed
alcoves.

[-] Ea
278-280

‘Who dares trespass in the Theatre of the Gods?’

The booming voice makes you jump almost out of
your skin in surprise. The words echo around among
the empty tiers of seats, but the voice itself seems to
be coming from a dark doorway in the front of the
building. What will you do now? Will you:

Answer, apologizing for trespassing? Turn to 366
Answer, demanding that the owner

of the voice show himself? Turn to 98
Say nothing and approach the

doorway? : Turn to 321
Leave the Theatre of the Gods and

continue your quest? Turn to 8

278
Will you now make your way to Sithera’s forbidding
temple (tum to 395) or will you first explore the
tombs of the Djaratians, if you have not already done
so (turn to 149)?

279
You miss your footing and slip. Automatically you reach
out for something to hold on to, but the stone you grab is
loose and comes away from the face of the pinnacle. There
is nothing you can do to stop yourself falling. If you failed
your first Test Your Skill roll, turn to 17. If you failed the
second, turn to 93. If you failed the third, turn to 207.

280
The sheer rock walls on either side of the river are
covered with phosphorescent lichen, so you are able

280

to assess your progress by its dim glow as you are
carried downstream. You suddenly become aware of
something moving towards you in the water ahead —
then the Snapperfish attack. Although only a little
larger than a man’s hand, the Snapperfish is a savage
carnivore with powerful jaws and needle-like teeth.
The bite from one of these creatures does 3 points
of damage to your sTAMINA on a roll of 4-6 on
one dice! Partially submerged in the fast-flowing
river, you can fight these vicious predators one at
a time, but with your Attack Strength reduced by 1

point.

SKILL SKILL
First SNAPPERFISH 6 2
Second SNAPPERFISH 6 2
Third SNAPPERFISH 6 5

If you kill all the fish, turn to 4.

Lily!

281

281

You are at the lower end of a long, vaulted passage
which ascends steeply ahead of you. The walls of the
Grand Gallery are carved with reliefs depicting a
mighty king meeting the gods in the afterworld. At its
top you enter a high-ceilinged chamber, on the far side
of which is a great stone door, ornately carved and
with a_magnificent gold lock, flanked by two huge
statues of a Djaratian king. The statues’ expressions
have been exquisitely fashioned, but their cold eyes
and the cruel smiles turning the corners of their stern
mouths bring a chill to your spine. This must be
Akharis — even these carved images of him fill you
with dread; it is as if the evil king knows that his
return to power is imminent and considers your at-
tempt to stop it to be futile.

Then you notice the blazing red eyes in the gloom of
a corner of the anteroom. With a roar, a massive,
shaggy-haired black beast leaps out of the shadows
and paws the ground in front of you. The monstrous,
dog-like creature snarls and bares its gleaming fangs.
Facing you is the Guardian of the Dead of Djaratian
myth, menacing protector of burial places and execu-
tioner of any trespassers who would desecrate the
tombs of the kings.

GUARDIAN OF
THE DEAD SKILL 10 STAMINA 10

If you manage to overcome this mighty opponent,
turn to 364.

E} E:

282-284

282

Wiping the lizard’s blood from your sword, you survey
the cavern. On the far side you can see a mound of
loose earth with a hollow in the top, in which rest two
sandy-coloured eggs. Around the nest are scattered
the bones of wild dogs and even pieces of a human
skeleton. If you want to search the debris, turn to 65.
Otherwise, you have no option but to leave the
Rasaur’s cave; turn to 226.

283

There is nothing lying on top of the column — but, as
you are about to leave, you experience a weird sensa-
tion: your body feels warm and you become aware of
a peculiar vibration, accompanied by a deep thrumming
sound. The whole sensation is not unpleasant, and you
almost feel as if you are being revitalized — and you
are! This is the power of the magical geometry of the
pyramid which allows the bodies of the dead to be
preserved so well and for so long. However, you are
not dead, so the effects of the pyramid’s regenerative
power are all the more beneficial. Roll one dice (if you
have a Crystal Pyramid, add 1 to the number rolled). If
you roll 1-2, tum to 327; 3-4, turn to 392; 5 or
above, turn to 341.

284
The tunnel emerges in a square chamber which is
painted with scenes of the dead king’s journey through
the underworld. In the wall opposite stands an ornate
darkwood door; to the left and right, corridors lead
elsewhere, the one to the left ending abruptly at

il

eS
-_

285-286

another door. As you listen in the stillness of the
tomb, a faint whispering sound comes from beyond
the door in front of you. Where will you go now?

Through the door in front of you? Turn to 177
Through the door to the left? Turn to 393
Along the passage to the right? Turn to 239

285

The world solidifies round you again — but to your
horror you see that you are still in the crumbling
temple. Lopar does not have the power to teleport
you from such a great distance away! You have saved
Allansia from the Curse of Akharis but, as the temple
falls in over you, your adventure, and your life, ends
here, entombed in the Necropolis of the ancient Djara-
tian kings.

‘You would need two hundred and eighty-six blocks
of stone altogether,’ you say. The ghost, obviously
hearing you in ancient Djaratian, stops its muttering

Ce] EY

287-288

and looks directly at you. ‘Of course,’ the old man
says slowly, ‘that’s right! Thank you, stranger. Tell me,
who is it who has released me from my torment?’ You
tell the ghost your name, and in return he introduces
himself as Rhehotep, the architect who designed and
built the tomb, along with many of its death-traps. 1
was misled and ambitious. When the tomb was com-
pleted, I was buried alive in this room so that I could
never reveal its secrets. | was working on that problem
before I was killed, and I have been unable to rest ever
since. Thanks to you, I may now depart to the Field of
Reeds, where the sun never sets; but before I go, how
may | help you in return?’ Hurriedly you tell Rhehotep
about your quest. You may question Rhehotep on two
of the subjects listed below (you will be sent back to
this paragraph after each choice). When you have
made two choices, turn to 225 at once.

Guards and monsters in the tomb. Turn to 101

Traps you may encounter. Turn to 297
Charms you might need. Turn to 133
The Cult of the Cobra. Turn to 334
Akharis. Turn to 365

287
Totally lost, you wander dejectedly about in the
water-filled corridors. Test your Luck. If you are Lucky,
turn to 100. If you are Unlucky, turn to 369.

288
Which symbol will you press next, the scarab (turn to
141) or the snake (turn to 104)?

289-290

289

With one mighty wrench you snap the chains free
from the pillars. Before the two cultists can react, you
swing the chains at them and knock them both out!
Then you grab your sword and backpack. Most of the
cultists are still unaware of what is going on. Do you
want to attack them (turn to 338), or would you rather
attack the Mummies in order to reach the High Priest-
ess and stop the ritual (turn to 160)?

290
With every muscle aching under the strain, you heave
against the granite block of the sarcophagus — and it
gives! A dark hole appears below the coffin and soon
you have opened a gap big enough to squeeze
through. You find yourself at the top of a flight of
steps which disappear into the darkness below. You
tun down it as the sand starts to pour into the secret
tunnel, and find yourself standing at the edge of a
subterranean lake in a huge natural cavern. Phosphores-
cent moss is growing on its walls and stalactites hang
down from the ceiling, many metres above you. Far
off in the distance you can see a great wall, on the
other side of which you can just make out the tops of
ancient Djaratian buildings. Moored at the edge of the
lake is a long, narrow boat. This is Akharis’s funerary

rr ee)
291

barque and your means of crossing the Sacred Lake.
Unmooring the barque, you climb aboard and, taking
an oar in your hands, guide the boat over the still
waters. On the other side of the lake, you step out by
a great gate, set into the wall above a flight of steps.
The gate creaks open and you enter the grand entrance
hall beyond. Torches round its walls immediately flare
into life and you step back in surprise. Sitting in the
centre of the hall is a gigantic creature with the body
of a lioness but the head of a woman. Surely this is the
legendary Sphinx! In a growling voice the Sphinx
addresses you in ancient Djaratian. If you can under-

stand it, you know what to do. If you don’t, turn to
262.

291
In the language of the Pygmy tribesmen of the jungles
of southern Arantis, ‘yokka’ means ‘sun’. According to
their lore, Yokka Eggs are laid by the fabulously rare
Yokka Birds: the birds fly down from the sun to lay
their eggs on the cool earth and what hatches from

2927-293

these eggs resembles a ball of fire. You may throw an
egg at an opponent at the start of a battle and, if you
Test your Skill sucessfully, it will hit, break open and
release the Yokka Bird, which will burn your enemy,
causing damage to his stAMINA equal to one dice
roll, before it flies away into the sky. Now return to

15.

292
You take a run-up at the chasm and, when you reach
its edge, you leap forward into the air. Roll two dice
and add 6 to the total rolled. If the new total is less
than or equal to your sTAMINA, turn to 169. If it is
greater, turn to 332.

293
Leaving your sword sheathed, you run at the Mummy
in an attempt to remove the glittering death-mask.
Fight the following combat in the usual manner but
with your Attack Strength reduced by 3 points. Also,
if you win an Attack Round you do not wound
Akharis, you merely manage to avoid his blows; of
course, if he wins an Attack Round, you suffer the
usual damage.

AKHARIS

If at any time your Attack Strength is 3 or more
points greater than your opponent's, turn to 203. You
can give up this method of attack at any time and
instead try to destroy the sarcophagus (turn to 257) or
simply resort to attacking Akharis with your sword
(turn to 97).

SKILL 13

cE Cd

294-296

294

Climbing over the boulders, you peer over a rocky
ledge and are startled by what you see. Lying entan-
gled in a net, which has been staked down, is a huge
creature, almost six metres in length; it has the body
of an enormous lion and massive clawed feet. As it
struggles to free itself from the net, you see that its
large head is leonine but its teeth are more like those
of a dragon. Its mane is golden, as is the rest of its
sleek and powerful-looking body, and a pair of small,
leathery wings sprout from its shoulder — a Dracon!
The trapped beast has not noticed you yet, so will you
leave here before it does (turn to 250), remain in your
hiding place and wait to see what happens (turn to
37), or climb down between the boulders and approach
the Dracon (turn to 174)?

295
All the shrines have been either plundered or des-
ecrated — except for one. Amid the destruction one,
small, tomb-like structure has been left untouched.
Nearing the building, you sense a strong aura of
Goodness washing over you like a refreshing wave.
What could be inside to create this atmosphere of
calm? You could open the door of the tomb and enter
it (turn to 317) or leave here without further delay
,turn to 278).

296
After several minutes’ walking, you come to a point
where a side-passage comes in from the left to join the
one you are following. Will you take this new tunnel
297-299

(turn to 370) or continue on your present route (turn
to 130)?

297
You gulp down the liquid and feel a surge of energy
shoot through your body. (Restore sTAMINA points
up to half your Initial staAMINA score, rounding frac-
tions up.) The viper’s venom was like a Potion of
Strength! Your muscles charged with new power, you
flee the temple. Turn to 2.

298

Between the towering cliffs you find yourself in cool-
ing shade. However, you have not gone far along the
gorge when you hear the sound of rock bouncing off
rock, then an ominous rumbling noise. Looking up,
you see, hurtling down at you from the cliffs, a
boulder which in turn has started a landslide. Test your
Luck. If you are Lucky, turn to 57. If you are Unlucky,
turn to 123.

299
At last you have found it! In front of you, illuminated
by your light, is Akharis’s burial chamber and, in its
exact centre, his great sealed stone sarcophagus. Excit-
edly, you run into the vaulted chamber. With a deep,
resonating boom, a monolithic block of granite drops
down from the roof of the tunnel, sealing off the only
way out. Too late you realize what is wrong with the
burial chamber: its walls are rough-hewn and undeco-
rated, as is the sarcophagus. You heave the stone
coffin open and, just as you feared, find it empty. This

300-302

burial chamber is a fake: a trap to lure the unwary.
There is no way out!

300
The heat is unbearable and, before you are half-way
across the chamber, you lose consciousness. As the
strength of the flames intensifies, your adventure
comes to an end.

301
With each corridor looking much like the last, you
soon become disorientated. At the next junction will
you go:

Left, then right?

Right, then left?

Right, then right again?
Right, and then straight on?

Turn to 383
Turn to 272
Turn to 217

Turn to 48

302
At last the spell holding the swarm together in its
wasp-form is broken by your spirited attack and the
remaining insects disperse. As you pause for a moment
to recover from your latest battle, you can see no sign
of the cultist; however, you have the feeling that you
will meet him again before your journey is done.
Looking at Jerran’s map, you calculate the general
position of the tomb of Akharis and the distance you
will have to travel to reach it. With renewed determina-
tion you set off in an easterly direction, away from the
temple.

CI GJ
593-305

Eventually the sand-covered plain meets the barren
hills to the east again and the way onward looks to be
hard going. However, not far to the north-east the
mouth of the valley opens on to the fringes of the
Desert of Skulls itself. From Jerran’s map it looks as if
you could take this route to reach Akharis’s tomb and,
although it may take slightly longer, the going will
probably be easier. Which route will you choose: the
desert one (turn to 131) or the path through the hills
(turn to 62)?

393
What will you use against the Mummies: your sword
(turn to 325) or fire (turn to 269)?

304
Test your Luck. If you are Lucky, turn to 167. If you are
Unlucky, turn to 86.

305
Everywhere you look, the hard granite walls of the
tomb are covered in carved reliefs depicting the life of
the evil Akharis. One particular stretch you pass shows
slaves being put to death in front of a huge image of
Sithera as a giant, four-armed woman with a snake's
head. Absorbed in studying these ghastly carvings,
you almost miss an archway to your right. Shining
your light into it, you see a long, pillared hall. Do
you want to enter it and explore further (turn to 30) or
will you keep walking along this passage (turn to
377)?

306

306
The great beasts detect your movement and lumber
into your path. The aggressive creatures attack in-
stantly. You will have to defeat these huge reptiles
before you can enter the tomb, since they are now
blocking the way in to the entrance.

SKILL STAMINA
First GIANT LIZARD 8 9
Second GIANT LIZARD 8 8

If either of the lizards wins an Attack Round, roll one
dice. On a 6, the beast hits you with its tail, which
knocks you over as well as inflicting 2 points of
damage to your sTAMINA. It takes you one Attack
Round to get up again, during which time the monster
gets in an unopposed strike. If you win, turn to 33.

307

307
Having lit your light, you make your way along the
passage, able to see about ten metres ahead of you.
The tunnel soon ends at the top of a steep flight of
steps, cut out of the rock, that leads down into the

darkness.

A tunnel leads onwards, but this one is faced with
stone. Following this new passageway, you soon
emerge in a long, pillared hall. You cannot see its end,
and in the flickering light you can just make out the
ceiling, high above you. Your light also picks out
intricate Djaratian carvings covering the pillars and
walls; they depict priests and servants carrying offer-
ings, all looking towards the interior of the tomb. You
pause in awe at the skill of the ancient Djaratians
whose achievements have lasted for centuries. Sud-
denly the whole chamber is lit up in a burst of
vermilion fire as a flaming ball flies past your head. In
shocked surprise you face your attacker. Standing next
to a pillar in the distance is a figure wearing volumi-
nous robes of linen and muslin. In one scaly hand it
holds a curved sword and you see that its head, far
from being human, is that of a snake! In horror you
realize that you are facing one of the Caarth, the
legendary Snake People of the Desert of Skulls! The
Caarth raises its free hand and another fireball forms in
its palm as a second Snakeman, wielding a cruelly
jagged blade, steps out from behind a pillar a few
metres away. As the warrior advances towards you,
the sorcerer releases the fireball. Work out Attack
Strengths for both you and the Caarth sorcerer (who

CE]

308-309

has a skiLt of 10) but do not deduct any sTAMINA
points. If your Attack Strength is higher, turn to 267.
If the sorcerer’s Attack Strength is higher, turn to 335.
If they are the same, calculate them again.

308

Wielding the Sandworm’s tooth, you must reduce
your Attack Strength by 1 point as you engage the
Golem in battle because you are used to using a
sword. However, this unusual weapon will not make
any difference against the insubstantial magical creature
as it will pass straight through the Sand Golem’s
shifting form and so will cause it only 1 sTAMINA
point of damage (2 sTAMINA points after a successful
Test for Luck). However, hits from the magical creature
are like punches from an iron gauntlet covered in
sandpaper and will still inflict 2 stamINA points of
damage on you!

SAND GOLEM SKILL 8 STAMINA 9

If you reduce your opponent’s sTAMINA to zero,
you break the spell animating the Golem, and it
becomes a harmless heap of sand once more (turn to
183).

309
The priestess’s relentless stare bores into you and
you collapse at the foot of the dais. A smile forms on
the woman’s lips as you continue to weaken until
you are totally drained of your life-force, which will
be fed to Akharis’s undead spirit to give him life
once more.

310-312

310
Remembering the actor's words about the primitive
inhabitants of these parts, you can well imagine that
this gorge would make a perfect place from which to
ambush unwary travellers. Will you carry on directly
through the gorge regardless (turn to 298), or will you
detour to one side and climb up to the cliff-top in
order to avoid the route between them (turn to 387)?

311
You hang for a moment by your arms from the lip of the
hole, then you let go. You fall at least ten metres before
hitting the sand-covered floor of the chamber below
(deduct 3 points from your sTAMINA). If you are carrying
any Yokka Eggs, Test your Luck, adding 2 to the dice roll.
If you are Lucky, turn to 202; if you are Unlucky, turn
to 49. If you do not have any Yokka Eggs, turn to 202.

312
The sandstone statuette, half a metre tall, is of a regal-
looking man, bare-chested and wearing a simple cloth
round his waist. On his head is a tall, cylindrical crown
with nine bands round it. In one hand he holds a long
staff. Return to 339.

Ey

313-315

313
The orb reveals no guidance and so, deciding you have
no more time to lose, you flee from the temple. Turn to 2.

314
Nothing untoward happens, so now will you press the

scarab followed by the vulture (turn to 157) or the
vulture and then the scarab (turn to 104)?

315

The door is unlocked and, pushing it open, you are
almost blinded. You are standing at the entrance to a
large room with marbled walls, and it is full of fabulous
treasures. The countless gold and silver artefacts reflect
the illumination shed by your light, making a quite
dazzling display. Adjusting your eyes to this brilliance
after the gloom of the endless tunnels, you gaze in
awe at the goblets, statues, gilded chariots, royal
furniture and caskets brimming with yet more won-
drous items. You could spend some time searching this
room for possible charms, or just for some choice
treasure (turn to 359), or you can leave and follow the
passage back past the T-junction (turn to 105).

316

316

Observing that you have killed two of its companions,
the largest baboon screams in fury and hurls its boulder
at you. Test your Skill. If you succeed, you dodge the
missile. If you fail, the rock hits you a glancing blow
and knocks you over (deduct 2 points from your
STAMINA and reduce your Attack Strength by 2 for
the first Attack Round in the ensuing battle). The
Great Baboon bounds down the cliff to demonstrate
to you what happens to anyone who strays into the
territory of its tribe. Your blade still covered in the
blood of its fellows, you engage the furious animal in
combat.

GREAT BABOON SKILL 8

If you win, the remaining baboons recognize your
superiority in battle and escape up into the cliffs,
hooting with fear. You are left to pass through the
gorge unhindered, although you sense their eyes on
you for as long as you are walking between the
towering cliffs. Once you are through the gorge, the
land levels out again and you head east. Turn to go.

STAMINA 7

317-318

317

You push the door open with ease and enter a lavishly
furnished burial-chamber. The charms of Good protect-
ing this tomb have saved it from the ravages of the
evil ones. Lying on an ornate Djaratian couch is a
body wrapped from head to toe in constricting band-
ages which have preserved it perfectly. As you ap-
proach, the Mummy does not move. You cannot help
thinking that you may be able to gain further assistance
here — but how? If you have some Oil of Lotus, turn
to 384. Otherwise, you will have to go out of this
tomb, leaving everything in place (turn to 278).

The floor immediately gives way beneath you and,
with nothing to grab, you cannot stop yourself plung-
ing into the spike-filled pit ... with fatal results. Your
adventure comes to a gruesome end in the Tomb of

Akharis.

319

319
The rocks out of the way at last, you can enter the
passage. For as far as you can see there is nothing
remarkable about it, certainly nothing to justify sealing
it off. The passage soon comes to a dead end in a bare,
small, square chamber. You suddenly become aware of
a phosphorescence in the middle of the room and, as
you watch, the ghostly figure of a short, middle-aged
man, with an anxious expression on his face, material-
izes in front of you. He is dressed just like some of the
people in the carvings on the walls of the tomb, and is
mumbling something over and over to himself in a
language you do not understand but which you pre-
sume to be ancient Djaratian. Unable to communicate
with the ghost, you sense no aura of Evil round it —
but nor do you detect any great presence of Goodness.
The chamber is totally empty, so there is nothing left
for you to do but leave the ghost to its mumblings.
Turn to 154.

NS ‘

N4 yV\

320-322

320

‘Mortal,’ the Sphinx growls, ‘all who would enter the
Necropolis must first be judged worthy; therefore you
must answer my three riddles correctly. If you should
lie or prove ignorant, your punishment will indeed be
terrible. But first, tell me, why do you seek to enter
the City of the Dead?’ In reply, will you tell the
Sphinx all about your quest to stop Akharis (turn to
175), or will you simply say that you are an adventurer
exploring the ruins of the lost civilization (turn to
361)?

321

A short figure suddenly appears in the doorway. The
man is dressed in plain grey robes and is wearing a
mask with grotesquely exaggerated features. ‘No one
trespasses in the Theatre of the Gods without facing
the wrath of Cranno the Great!’ he booms. Then, at a
single word from the strange man, a huge Sabre-
toothed Tiger bounds through the doorway and across
the sand to attack you before you can reach its master.

SABRE-TOOTHED TIGER  skILL 9 STAMINA &

If you win, turn to 237.

322

‘Farewell, brave adventurer,’ says the ghost. ‘Remem-
ber, Akharis gains strength from his coffin.’ As you
leave her tomb, the spirit of Princess Nemset adds,
‘May the gods of Djarat favour the noble-hearted.’
Turn to 278.

Eo) Ea

323

323
It is very well hidden, but eventually you do discover
the hair-line crack that gives away the position of the
door; not far from it, one section of carving is slightly
more pronounced. Pressing your hand against it, the
door creaks open and you enter a very small room.
Resting on a slab are several objects of interest: one is
a small, earthenware jar containing a mummified pack-
age; the second is a fabulous breastplate made from
gold and lapis lazuli in the form of a falcon, each of its
sixty feathers carefully fashioned; and the third is a
tiny sarcophagus, only fifty centimetres long. You
may take either or both the earthenware jar and the
Falcon Breastplate — but then what will you do about
the sarcophagus? Will you open it (tum to 381), or
would you rather leave it alone and be on your way
(turn to 254)?

324-325

324

The hole is actually the entrance to a natural tunnel.
The air inside it is hot and dry. The tunnel does not
go very far before opening into a small cavern. At this
time of day the sun’s rays penetrate even this subterra-
nean chamber. Suddenly you hear the grating sound of
scales on stone and the scratching of claws. You spin
around, to see a large, reptilian creature with a long,
dragon-like head and fang-filled mouth running at you
from out of the shadows on six crocodile legs. A black
tongue snakes out from between the Rasaur’s jaws as
it dashes towards you. You must fight this carnivorous
reptile.

RASAUR SKILL 8

If the Rasaur wins an Attack Round, roll one dice. On
a roll of 4 to 6, it will hit you with its tongue, on the
end of which is a poison gland (deduct 1 further
STAMINA point and add 1 to your POISON score). If
you win, turn to 282.

STAMINA 9

325
The Mummies move forward stiffly to attack the one
they believe has defiled their resting-places. Roll one
dice and add 2 to the number rolled; this is the
number of Mummies you must get past in order to
reach freedom. Because they are so slow-moving,
you can fight them one at a time. However, if any

Ey EG]

325

individual battle should last more than nine Attack
Rounds, turn to 399 immediately. (Any Mummies
you have already destroyed come from the top of the
list.)

SKILL STAMINA
ANCIENT MUMMY 7 9
FESTERING MUMMY 8 8
DENU OF TEZRA 8 10
LORD SARROTH 9 12
ZOTH-LAR 9 11
CROWNED MUMMY 8 11
DECAYED MUMMY 7 10
PTAHNEM THE

MIGHTY 10 12

If you should defeat all the Mummies, you make good
your escape to the shrines (turn to 295) or the black

ee (turn to 395) before they can come back to
ite!

326-328

326
The translation of the inscription on the wall above
the map is as follows:

The dead king's body was carried from the City of Tezra
thirty kilometres to the edge of the hills wherein lie the
alabaster quarries. South of the Pillars of Antep the evil
one rested for three days within the temple before being
carried to his tomb. The infernal king ordered its construc-
tion decades before, and within its depths were countless
traps and unspeakable horrors to ensure his eternal sleep
was undisturbed.

Their duties finished, the priests and embalmers left the
rift in the hills between the Gold Tunnels and the Oasis
of Iash but only one returned alive, the rest having all
suffered the Curse.

Now return to 346.

327
You feel invigorated and ready to face any new
challenges. Restore your STAMINA score to its Initial
level, reduce your POISON score by 4 points and
regain 1 LUCK point. Climbing down from the pillar,
you leave the chamber; turn to 16.

328
Sandworms’ teeth, serrated along one edge, are fash-
ioned into strong ivory daggers by the nomads of the
Desert of Skulls and are prized possessions. Now
return to 15.

Ct] G3

329

329

Plunging your hands into the petals, you send a cloud
of pollen into the air and inhale a great lungful.
Unfortunately the pollen of the Bloodfire Rose is
highly poisonous; however, your increased immunity
means that all you suffer is watering eyes and a
violent wheezing fit which leaves you feeling drained
— but it is better than death! Deduct 2 points from
your STAMINA and add 3 to your Polson total. All
you find as a result of your efforts is an earthenware
pot, decorated with prayers for protection in the
afterlife. Looking inside it, you find something wrapped
in mummifying bandages and soaked in embalming
fluids. You can think of no use for such an object but,
if you want to take it with you, add it to your
Adventure Sheet. Leaving the long-dead kings alone
once more, will you try the other door out of the main
chamber (turn to 177) or leave via the other corridor
(turn to 239)?

330-332

330 |
You watch in satisfaction as the Mummy is consumed by
fire. The flames rage for several seconds but then rapidly
die down and go out. Horrified, you see that Akharis is
totally unharmed! To prevent such a death, his Mummy
has been protected with fire-warding spells and potions.
As youstand, stupefied, Akharis lashes out with a mighty
fist (deduct 2 points from your STAMINA). Turn to 245.

351
You quickly put as much distance as possible between
yourself and the mounds. Fortunately the remainder of
your trek across the desert is without incident and
eventually you find yourself heading back into the
hills to search for Akharis’s tomb. Turn to 62.

332
The strength of your jump is not great enough to
carry you to the other side of the crevasse. Test your
Luck. If you are Lucky, turn to 386. If you are Unlucky,

turn to 353.

EJ Le]
“

iy
}

!
§

a

ij
ti, 6
igs § f

|

4
I

7

'

)
'

{

ee,

Tg

va
é
i

£
7
q
-
’

~

)
Mie

333

333
You manage to make your way safely to the cave

entrance at the base of the great boulder. After a few
metres the rough-hewn tunnel opens out into a vast
chamber in the centre of the massive boulder. A fire
burns in the middle of the chamber, the smoke rising
up through a hole in the roof. Sitting, cross-legged, on
the far side of the fire is the figure of a man, his head
bowed. ‘Who seeks Lopar, the Shaman of Spirit Rock?’
the man asks from the shadows. Sensing the man’s
aura of Goodness you announce yourself. ‘And what is
your purpose in seeking me?’ he asks. Quickly you
explain your quest to Lopar. When he looks up sud-
denly, by the flickering firelight you see that his head
is that of a dog. Woven into his fur are various beads
and feathers, and his hands resemble paws. ‘Knowledge
can be a dangerous thing in the hands of the ignorant,’
the Shaman says sagely. ‘Having braved Spirit Rock,
you must prove that you are worthy to receive my
wisdom by solving my riddle.’ Startled, you listen to
Lopar’s conundrum:

‘No army can stand against my might,

I am greater than the wind or sea.

All succumb just as day follows night.
High mountains turn to dust before me.’

If you know the answer to the riddle, convert the
letters of the answer into numbers using the code
A=1,B=2,C =3...Z = 26. Add the numbers
together, then turn to the paragraph whose number is
the same as the total. If the paragraph makes no sense,
or if you cannot solve the riddle, turn to 161.
3347-336

334 .
‘The members of the vile cult are led by the High
Priestess of Sithera, a devious and cunning woman
possessed of dark powers and cruel magics. Avoid
them if you can.’ Return to 286.

335
The sorcerer’s magical attack slams into your body,

surrounding you for a moment in vermilion fire (deduct
4 points from your sTAMINA). In agony you prepare
to defend yourself against these reptilian attackers;
turn to 50.

336

Against all the odds, you have done it — after countless
centuries, Akharis is dead! Regain 1 Luck point. All
that remains is for you to burn his undead remains and
then ... A terrible groaning sound, coming from high
above you, and gasps of terror from the cultists cause
you to look up at the statue of Sithera. Just when you
thought it was all over, the great statue’s eyes are
glowing with a sinister light and the colossus is
coming creakily to life. The statue sweeps a taloned
arm at you which you manage to dodge before it can
hit you. Your non-magical weapon will have no effect
on the animated statue, so what can you possibly use
to defeat it? If you have an ankh among your posses-
sions, you will know how many precious stones it has
set into it. Multiply this number by twelve, then turn
to the paragraph with the same number. If you do not
have an ankh, tum to 73.

337-339

337

Under Glantanka’s unrelenting gaze you travel on
through the heat of the day. The uneven path leads
you further into the wilderness that fringes the Desert
of Skulls. You follow the route north-westwards across
boulder-strewn hills and through narrow valleys. As
you pass through one rocky gulley you notice a large
hole at its base, leading underground. Do you want to
stop and investigate this entrance into the earth (turn
to 324) or will you continue on your way without
hesitation (turn to 226)?

338
Although you manage to cut down several of the
cultists, you are hugely outnumbered, and the rest
soon have you under restraint again. There is nothing
you can do now as the High Priestess drains you of
your life-energies, which she will use to resurrect her
master, Akharis! Your adventure is over.

339
You give Cranno a brief outline of your mission

without revealing too many important details. ‘Indeed
I may,’ he says, removing the mask and revealing
himself to be middle-aged, grey-haired and balding.
He leads you through a doorway into the stone
building; you find yourself in a long room, full of
pieces of faded scenery and other theatrical props.
‘You know, I used to be one of the greatest actors
Allansia has ever seen,’ Cranno says. ‘I have played all
the great parts: Duke Merion of Kallamehr, Quor the
Sorcerer, Vorga the Pirate-lord. You understand I mean

Ee] Ee]

340

no harm really, what with the mask and dramatic
performance. I just prefer to spend my retirement
away from unappreciative audiences.’ You are startled
to see a huge Sabre-toothed Tiger pad over to the
actor and lick his hand. ‘Don’t mind Cleomina,’ Cranno
adds. ‘She's perfectly loyal. Anyway, about my aiding
you. I've collected a number of interesting pieces; |
would gladly swap some trinket you may possess for
two of these items.’ Cranno would like any one of the
following: a Brass Telescope, a Healing Draught, some
Oil of Lotus or a Crystal Pyramid. In return, you may
choose two items from the list below if you decide to
trade. Having chosen your items, turn to the paragraph
relevant to each object to find out more about your
new possessions.

Papyrus Scroll Turn to 74
Carved Bone Horn Turn to 128

Old Lamp Turn to 354

Statuette of a god Turn to 312
Large Bronze Key Turn to 224
Sealed Black Bottle Turn to 265

When you have finished here, you thank Cranno for his
help and leave the ruined Theatre of the Gods (turn to 8).

340
The cultist is busy doing something in front of the
wall of the chamber next to the statue. Suddenly a
section swings open and the man steps through into
darkness. You run into the room but, before you can
reach the secret door, it slams shut with a hollow
boom. You try to force the slab of stone open again

341-342

by pushing against it and using your sword as a lever,
but all to no effect. There must be some hidden catch
or lever that will open the secret door. Then you see
it: on the front of the slab, surrounded by hieroglyphs,
three symbols have been carved out of the wall on
squares of stone that look as if they can be pressed
inwards. The three symbols are a snake, a scarab beetle
and a vulture. If you do not want to take the risk of
trying to open this door, you follow the original
tunnel, which turns to the right before coming to a
flight of stone steps that take you deeper into the
tomb (turn to 216). If you do want to attempt to open
the secret door, which symbol will you press first:

The snake? Turn to 314
The scarab? Turn to 19
The vulture? Turn to 288

341

The power of the pyramid converges on the spot
where you are standing, filling you with new strength
and relieving you of all stresses. Restore your STAMINA,
SKILL and Luck to their Initial scores, and reduce your
POISON score to zero. Under the effect of the mystic
energy, the blade of your sword actually sharpens, so
that from now on you may add 1 to your Attack
Strength in battle. With renewed determination you
leave-the chamber to continue your quest; turn to 16.

342
‘I, too, am on a quest of the utmost importance,’ he
says, grandly. ‘I am Don Huan Fernandez, a knight of

El Gd

343-344

Vastille, and this is my manservant, Gordo.’ The tubby
man nods and wipes the sweat from his forehead with
a grimy handkerchief. ‘I have sworn to rid these wild
and desperate lands of the foul giants who dwell here,
preying on the honest village-folk of this province,’ he
continues. ‘Tell me, have you seen any such monsters in
your wanderings?’ When you shake your head Don
Huan looks downcast and disappointed. ‘Fear not. I am
sure that my quest will soon be over and, with its
completion, I shall win my lady's hand. Fare you well!’
With that, the eccentric knight gallops off again to-
wards the north-east, with the mule bearing his man-
servant trotting along behind, leaving you to continue
your journey on foot. Turn to 24.

343
You come to an abrupt halt against the sticky tangle

of a gigantic web. You struggle to free yourself from
the gelatinous strands but to no avail. Feeling as
helpless as a trapped fly, you can do nothing when a
shadowy black shape descends from the roof of the
cave on to the web. The last thing you feel in this
world is the demonic Death Spider sinking its fangs
into your body.

344
The Evil Eye spell being cast by the High Priestess
drains the energy from your muscles; in desperation
you try to force yourself to keep moving and reach
the woman. Test your Luck. If you are Lucky, turn to
266. If you are Unlucky, turn to 309.

345

345
As the Giant Scorpion twitches its last, you run over

to help Jerran. He is barely alive. ‘This is the end for
me,’ he gasps, ‘but you must go on. Stop the Cult of
the Cobra, and beware the Curse of Akharis.’ With
that, the brave archaeologist dies. The next morning
you bury Jerran Farr, marking the grave with his old,
battered hat. Offering a prayer to the gods for his
departed soul, at the same time you swear to do all
you can to stop the evil sect and prevent Akharis’s
return. Taking Jerran’s map with you, you set off
again, heading north.

By mid-morning your path is becoming gradually
steeper as it leads you into the rocky foothills of the
mountains which border the Desert of Skulls. You
continue to follow the dusty trail as it turns towards
the north-east. A few kilometres on, standing at the
top of a ridge, you see that several semi-circular tiers
of stone seats have been cut out of the base of the
hillside in front of a raised platform and a low, rectangu-
lar stone building. Close to the seemingly deserted site
lie fallen pillars and the remains of walls. Do you want
to descend the hillside and investigate the ruins (turn
to 277) or would you rather continue on your way
(turn to 8)?

; Wi

“7+

WZ

ZZ

ee
* ~“
yy SS

346

346

All that remains of the temple are sections of crumbling
stone walls and the occasional colonnade of rounded
pillars. Broken statues of strange, animal-headed deities
protrude from heaps of drifted sand, while wor carv-
ings adorn fallen stone slabs. An unnatural stillness
pervades this place and the only sound you can hear is
the desert wind keening through the ancient columns.
Wandering among the ruins, you come to a part of the
temple that is not in ruins. Entering the building, you
discover that its interior is dimly lit by daylight
streaming in through cracks in the roof. The walls of
the temple are covered with stylized paintings of
human and semi-human figures. A repeated theme
appears to be that of a king praying, making offerings,
or conversing with an assortment of gods and god-
desses.

At last you come to a chamber in which, carved on
one wall, is a map of the area round the temple at the
edge of the Desert of Skulls; although it is recognizable
as such, there are also several obvious differences.
Pictures of buildings and other sites have been carved
as part of the map and at the top of the wall there is a
Djaratian inscription. You study the illustration to try
to work out the location of Akharis’s tomb. If you can,
you will know how many kilometres it is to Akharis’s
tomb (turn to the paragraph with the same number to
continue your adventure). Otherwise, your adventure
ends here, as you have no idea where to start looking
for the tomb. Soon you and many others will suffer
the Curse of Akharis!

fd GI

347

347
You find yourself in a long entrance hall. In front of
you is a tall archway and on either side of it is a
carved relief of Sithera, Goddess of Evil, ten metres
high! Two cultists, their red robes bearing the motif of
a rearing golden cobra, suddenly run through the
archway, their curved swords drawn. As you prepare

to fight, you feel something strike you in the back and
the world goes black . . .

Slowly you come to and take in your predicament.
You are chained between two great pillars, your arms
stretched out on either side of your body. You have
been captured by the Cult of the Cobra! You have no
idea how long you have been unconscious, but you
have recovered in time to witness the ritual that will
end in Akharis’s resurrection! You are being held
prisoner at one end of a vast chamber inside the
Temple of Sithera. At the other end is a huge, ten-
metre tall statue of the snake-headed goddess, her four
taloned arms raised menacingly. Beneath the statue, on
a raised dais, lies a large stone sarcophagus inside
which is the mummified body of Akharis! The Mummy
is huge and wears an ornate death-mask which covers
most of the dead king’s rotting face. At the base of the
dais stand two large braziers, the magical fires of
which fill the chamber with an unearthly glow. Stand-
ing between the braziers is a strikingly beautiful
woman with black hair cut in the style of the ancient
Djaratians. She is dressed in the robes of a Djaratian
Priestess, and in one hand she holds a staff, the top of
which is carved to resemble a cobra’s head. She is

348-349

chanting an incantation in ancient Djaratian, and it is
repeated by the crowd of cultists who stand between
you and the dais. You are also horrified to see that a
mass of Mummies, in various states of decay, are
blocking the way to the High Priestess. These must be
the Mummies of those loyal to Akharis, returned to
life by the evil cult. You must stop this ritual! Standing
slightly in front of you, on either side, are two cultists
who are totally caught up by the ceremony in front of
you. One holds your sword and the other has your
backpack. But how are you to get free? In desperation
you drag at the chains and feel one give slightly. The
chains must have been here for centuries and they
have weakened over time. If only you are strong
enough ... Roll three dice. If the total rolled is less
than or equal to your STAMINA, turn to 289. If it is
greater, turn to 388.

348
Before the lizards can react to your presence you have
run past them and through the dark portal. Regain 1
LUCK point and turn to 204.

349
Having been granted the Wisdom of Khunam, you
understand perfectly what the ghost is saying. ‘... If
the first level of the pyramid is made up of one block
of stone, and the second level is made up of nine
blocks, how many blocks would be needed to make a
pyramid six levels high? If the first level . . 7 The ghost
is repeating the problem over and over without ever
arriving at the solution. If you know the answer, you

LE
550-352

could try calling it out (turn to the paragraph with the
same number as the answer). If you do not know the
solution, or if you do not want to waste any more
time here, turn to 154.

350

Swinging your sword, you try to strike the High
Priestess and so prevent her using her evil curse-magic
against you again. To defend herself, the woman raises
her cobra staff, which suddenly twists in her hands and
comes to life! If the Priestess wins an Attack Round
and hits you with the staff, as well as deducting the
usual 2 points from your STAMINA you must add 1 to
your POISON total!

HIGH PRIESTESS
If you win, turn to 397.

SKILL 9 STAMINA 7

351

You decide against exploring the Scarab’s burrow as
you will not find any Djaratian treasures up there; you
would be more likely to find the beetle’s mate or
maggot-like young. Squeezing past the great insect’s
body and cleaning your sword of the thick yellow mess
that clings to it, you make your way along the passage;
this turns left again, before ending at yet another flight
of stone steps. You descend them, even though they
take you even deeper into the tomb. Turn to 216.

352
Finding hand-holds in the crevices between the blocks
of granite gives you no difficulty and, having climbed

553-354

several metres, your light illuminates another corridor
leading away from you. Do you want to pull yourself
up out of the shaft to investigate this new passage
(turn to 281), or would you prefer to descend once
more to the tunnel below and follow that (turn to

299)?

353
Your jump misses the entrance to the tunnel and you

smash into the rock-face below it. As you fall towards
the river down the side of the crevasse, your head hits
a projecting outcrop, which knocks you senseless.
Unconscious in the fast-flowing river, you soon drown.
Your adventure is over.

354
Rubbing the lamp fails to summon any supernatural
spirits, but you do discover that there is still some oil

left inside it. Return to 339.

CJ] Es
355-356

355

You unstopper the bottle and gulp down its contents.
The water is cool and refreshing and has incredible
revitalizing effects on you (restore STAMINA points
equivalent to half your Initial score, 2 sx1Lt points and
2 LUCK points, and reduce your Porson total by half).
Cross the Waters of Life off your Adventure Sheet, then
return to the paragraph you just came from.

356

You walk up to the platform and inspect the ancient
chest. Seeing no sign of any hidden traps, you carefully
lift off its lid. You are surprised to discover that the
chest is full of dried crimson flower petals, which
could be hiding something. Do you want to rummage
through the petals in case they are (turn to 329), or
will you leave this chamber and go through the other
door (turn to 177) or along the passage (turn to 239)?

357-358

357
The stone hits you squarely on the side of the head.

The blow leaves you dazed and with a painful bruise
on your temple (deduct 2 points from your STAMINA
and reduce your Attack Strength for the next battle
you fight by 1 point). Meanwhile, the mutated ant-
men move in to attack. Will you draw your sword to
defend yourself (tum to 218) or will you look for
something else to use against the Xoroa (tum to

139)?

358

You are sure that you can see an image forming in the
centre of the orb: it is a figure with beads and feathers
woven into its fur, and the dog-like face confirms that
you have contacted Lopar, the Shaman of Spirit Rock!
You call out to Lopar, and he looks in your direction.
Somewhat surprised, he greets you and you hurriedly
tell him of your success in your quest and of your
present predicament. ‘Then we must get you out
straight away,’ Lopar says anxiously. ‘I will try to
teleport you out — but I must warn you that you are a
long distance away and I may not have the strength
to lift and carry you over such a distance.’ The
Shaman’s expression changes to one of deep
concentration and the world round you grows hazy.
Test your Luck. If you are Lucky, turn to 400. If you are
Unlucky, turn to 285.

yt >
s 4
: 4
Z,
ta Z
4 Z
4 vy
ra

Z
4
4
4
A ** >
Pies
4 “
4

WY VI |

359

359
You cannot believe how many riches there are in this

chamber. With half of what is here you could probably
buy the whole of Rimon! It is only at the last moment
that you hear your attacker's approach. Spinning
around and drawing your sword in the same motion,
you confront your would-be assailant.

Standing before you is a terrifying apparition: it is the
corpse of an old man, clothed in scarlet and gold
robes, but there is not a single drop of moisture left
within it! Sunken eyes stare at you from a face dried
tight over the man’s skull. In places the desiccated skin
has torn so that yellowed bone is visible, making the
undead horror appear even more dreadful. Amentut
was Akharis’s Vizier, so loyal that the king demanded
he be buried alive with his master, so that Amentut
might serve him in the afterlife. One such duty is the
protection of his lord’s treasure-rooms — and you have
been caught red-handed!

AMENTUT SKILL 7 STAMINA 7

If the undead Vizier wins an Attack Round, roll one
dice; if you roll a 6, Amentut clutches your skin and
drains part of your life-force away. Deduct 1 point
from both your Initial and current STAMINA scores
and 1 point from both your Initial and current sKILL
scores as you physically age! Amentut feeds on this
life-force himself, so add 1 to his srAMINA score if he
manages to do this. If you defeat the horror, turn
to 221.

Cd EJ

360-363

360

As soon as Lopar sees the golden T-shaped cross, he
gasps in amazement. ‘My friend, you have here one of
the most highly venerated and powerful artefacts of
the ancient Djaratians. This is the Ankh, the Key of
Life. Guard it well, for it may be precisely what you
need to defeat the Cult and Akharis, should he return!’
Now return to 194.

361
‘You lie!’ the Sphinx roars and leaps at you. Your
earthly weapon has no‘effect on this agent of the gods
of Djarat. You are knocked flat by the beast, which
then proceeds to tear you limb from limb so that you
perish quickly, if horribly!

362
Test your Luck and Test your Skill. If you are both
Lucky and successful, turn to 127. Otherwise, you
cannot stop the relentless descent of the spiked roof,
and you suffer a horrible death in the Fangs of Sithera.

363
You manage to get to your feet before the cultists
attack. Separated, Farr takes on one of the red-robed
assassins, while the other two advance on you. You
must fight them both at the same time.

SKILL STAMINA
First CULTIST 7 7
Second CULTIST 7 6

As soonas you have killed one of the cultists, turn to 214.

364-365

364

The great beast slumps to the ground and breathes its
last. You are sure that beyond the ornate door lies
Akharis’s burial chamber, but do you have a key to fit
the golden lock? If you have, turn to the paragraph
with the same number as that of the hieroglyphs
inscribed on the key. If you haven't, no amount of
force will make the great stone door budge, so at the
last hurdle you have failed in your quest.

365
You ask Rhehotep how you may be able to destroy
the mummified body of Akharis. ‘Such undead are
susceptible to fire,’ the architect explains. Tt is also
rumoured that his death-mask is imbued with life-
giving energies. Destroy that, and you may destroy
his earthly body.’ Return to 286.

366-368

366
A short figure appears in the open doorway, dressed
in plain grey robes and wearing a mask with gro-
tesquely exaggerated features. ‘What do you want of
the great Cranno?’ the little man booms. Will you:

Ask if he can aid you in your quest? Turn to 339
Ask him what he knows of the

Shaman? Turn to 389
Attack the man? Turn to 134
Leave the ruined theatre? Turn to 8

367

As the last Mummy falls, you find yourself at the foot
of the raised dais — in front of you stands the High
Priestess of the Cult of the Cobra! Most of the cult
have been left confused by your attack and are running
around in panic and chaos, but their leader remains
cold and calculating. You have interrupted the Ritual
of Resurrection and now must prepare to face the
fury of Sithera’s acolyte. Are you wearing a Mala-
chite Amulet? If so, turn to 223. If you aren’t, tum to
121.

368

The image of Cracca, Lord of Rivers and Ferryman of
the Gods, falls at last and instantly changes back into a
thirty-centimetre-tall statue. Now drained of its magical
energies, the golden image is harmless and you may
add it to your possessions if you wish. There is
nothing else of value in the shrine, so you leave; turn
to 284.

369-371

369
Constantly wading through waist-high water while
holding your light and sword aloft is very tiring
(deduct 1 point from your sTAMINA). The tunnel veers
sharply to the left and then left again. At the next
junction, will you go left (turn to 383), right (turn to
195) or keep straight on (turn to 142)?

370
Not far down the tunnel, you discover that the roof
has caved in, blocking it completely and smashing a
hole through the floor of the passage into a chamber
below. What will you do now? If you have a rope and
grapple, you could lower a light down through the
hole (turn to 385) or climb down the rope yourself
into the chamber (turn to 202). If you do not have a
rope, you could risk lowering yourself through the
hole (turn to 311). Alternatively, you can retrace your
steps and turn either left, if you have not already done
so (turn to 130), or right (turn to 63)?

374 D .

The corridor gradually slopes upwards until, ducking
under a low archway, you emerge in a high, pyramidal
chamber, its four walls coming together at a point
several metres above you. In the wall opposite is the
entrance to another tunnel, but in the centre of the
room a few steps go up to the top of a small, squat
pillar. Do you want to climb the steps to the top of
the pillar (turn to 283) or would you rather leave this
chamber (turn to 16)?

EJ] Cd
y La

372-373

372

Scrambling over the rocks, you come upon an open
space in the boulder-strewn wilderness. Lying on the
ground on his back is Don Huan Fernandez and
standing over him is a grotesque, three-metre-tall hu-
manoid. Its lumpy skin is coloured a sandy brown and
it is naked except for a loincloth made of animal hides.
In one huge hand it carries a great wooden club
embedded with chunks of flint, but it is its face that
fills you with dread. The monstrosity has just one
large eye in the centre of its forehead and an ugly
horn sprouting from the top of its skull. Fernandez is
fending off the Cyclops with what remains of his
shattered lance. Lying close by is the motionless body
of Fernandez’s steed, while you can see his cowardly
manservant hiding in a crevice in the rocks. You do
not give much for the old knight's chances of surviving
this battle. Will you:

Draw your sword and run to his

defence? Turn to 248
Try to distract the Cyclops? Turn to 181
Leave Fernandez to his fate? Turn to 114.

373

The sarcophagus shatters in an explosion of stone
shards. Some of the lumps of rock hit you (lose 3
STAMINA points) but Akharis comes off worse. The
sarcophagus was what partly restored the Mummy’s
strength, but you have robbed him of those life-giving
energies; reduce his sTAMINA score by 6 points when
you come to fight the weakened Akharis. However,
your adversary is now almost upon you. Will you

[+] Ey
374-375

attack him with the Waters of Life, if you have them
(turn to 64), or with your sword (turn to 97), or will
you try to remove his death-mask (turn to 293).

374
As you make your way along the tunnel, you become

aware that the temperature of the air in the tomb is
rising rapidly until you begin to feel uncomfortably
hot. After descending a short flight of roughly cut
steps, the corridor curves to the right and now is lit by
an orange glow, so that you no longer need your light
to see by. As you turn the corner you have to shield
your face from the light and heat! Ahead of you the
passage enters a square chamber, where it becomes a
bridge over a fiery pit. Roaring flames leap up on
either side of the path and you see everything through
a heat-haze. However, this is the only way ahead, so
you must brave the Path of Flames. Walking across
the stone bridge, you begin to feel dizzy as the heat
intensifies. Roll three dice. If the total rolled is less
than or equal to your STAMINA score, turn to 115. If it
is greater, turn to 300.

375
A low growling awakens you in the middle of the

night, and in seconds you are on your feet, your
sword drawn. With a snarl two jackals, attracted by
the light of your fire, leap at you. Fight them together.

SKILL STAMINA
First JACKAL 6 5
Second JACKAL 5 5

376-378

If you defeat the animals, you manage to get a few
more precious hours of sleep before dawn, when you
set off to the north for the temple. Turn to 5.

376

Pushing with all your strength against its lid, you
open the sarcophagus — only to discover that
Akharis’s mummified body is not here! However, his
guardian spirit or ‘Ka’ is. Like a glittering silhouette
of a man, with no distinct features, the Ka sits up in
the otherwise empty stone coffin and reaches for you,
determined to acquire your life-force for Akharis.

KA SKILL 8 STAMINA 7

Despite its insubstantial form, the Ka can still be
injured by your weapon. If you defeat the guardian
spirit, turn to 252.

377
The floor of the tunnel begins to slope gradually

downwards, while the ceiling remains at the same
height. There are no steps and the tunnel is getting
steeper, the loose sand covering the stone floor making
it treacherously slippery underfoot. Suddenly you lose
your footing and tumble, head over heels, down the
slope. Test your Luck. If you are Unlucky, turn to 343.
If you are Lucky, turn to 268.

378
Brandishing the statuette in front of the Golem has no
effect, but can you invoke its power? If you know the
name of the deity whose image you hold in your
379-381

hand, convert the letters of the name into numbers
using the code A= 1,B=2,C=3... Z = 26,
Add the numbers together then turn to the paragraph
whose number is the same as the total. If you do not
know the god's name, you have no choice but to draw
your sword, since the Golem is upon you (turn to 143).

379
Abandoning the peculiar potions, you make your way

towards the exit from these chambers. Turning a
corner, you find your way blocked by three bizarre
creatures: a jackal, a tiger and a cobra, but they have
been mummified. If you want to attack the bestial
guardians with your sword, turn to 163. If you would
prefer to use fire, turn to 25.

380

As Nandibears regularly remove treasure from their
homes, having no need of it themselves, all you
manage to find are a few Gold Pieces lying among the
carcasses (roll one dice to see how many). Finding
nothing else of value, you leave the monster’s lair and
rejoin the trail heading north-westwards towards the
temple. Turn to 337.

381
Inside the sarcophagus is the partially bandaged, mum-
mified body of a monkey. Its eyes suddenly flick open
and, screeching, it leaps out of the sarcophagus at you,
biting your arm (deduct 2 points from your sTAMINA).
Quickly you draw your sword and try to fend off the
agile creature.

|

382-383

| MUMMIFIED MONKEY skitt6— STAMINA 4

If you win, looking inside the sarcophagus again you
find a large golden key, its head inscribed with thirty-
four hieroglyphs that spell out the royal names of
Akharis. Taking the key, and any other items you
fancy, you leave the hidden room; turn to 254.

382
‘How disrespectful!’ the creature snarls angrily. “You
humans have no manners at all. Clearly I shall have to
teach you a lesson.’ With a tremendous heave, the
Dracon drags the stakes out of the ground and frees
itself from the net. Roaring, the monster stalks towards
you, ready to slash you with its huge claws and bite
you with its oversized teeth.

DRACON STAMINA 14

SKILL 9

The Dracon derides your skill and mocks you as you
engage in combat; as a result, you must reduce your
Attack Strength by 1 point for the duration of this
battle. If you reduce the creature’s sTAMINA to 5
points or less, turn at once to 61.

383
You eventually find yourself back at the steps where
you entered the flooded maze! After all your efforts
you have not got anywhere (lose 1 Luck point.)
Turning back towards the maze, will you now go to
the left (turn to 124), to the right (turn to 234) or keep
going straight ahead (turn to 217)?

EY] EF]

LO

§

‘Ss : \
ais ‘
ANDOM b \ \

384-385

384

Some intuitive feeling tells you to anoint the Mummy
with the oil. As soon as you do so, a shimmering light
appears next to the couch and forms into the glowing,
blue-white figure of a Djaratian woman wearing fine
clothes and a falcon-shaped head-dress. Then the
ghostly lady speaks to you in dulcet tones: ‘Stranger,
why do you wake me from my sleep of eternity?’ You
feel compelled to be truthful, so you relate your
mission to her. ‘I am Princess Nemset, daughter of
Horari, twenty-fourth king of Djarat,’ the ghost says,
‘and I will help you in your task to destroy the Evil
One. But first, I long to play my favourite game,
Tenet, again.’ Nemset points to a table whose surface
is divided into a grid and with playing pieces set up
on it. ‘If I teach you the rules, will you play against
me?’ the Princess asks sweetly.

Will you grant her request (turn to 274) or, fearing
that time is running short, will you tell her that you
must leave at once (turn to 322)?

385

Your light illuminates part of a large, rubble-strewn
chamber, the sand-covered floor of which is at least
ten metres below you. You will be able to climb down
your rope safely into the chamber, if you wish (turn to
202). If you do not want to, you must retrace your
steps back to the original tunnel and turn either left, if
you have not already done so (turn to 130), or right
(turn to 63).

[-} EJ

386—388

386
You hit the water with a tremendous splash and,
momentarily stunned by its chill, are carried along by
the fast-flowing underground river. Turn to 280.

387

You half walk and half climb towards the cliff-tops. In
a few places you slip, sending a cascade of stones
down into the gorge, but eventually you reach the top
safely. You must now eat a meal or lose 2 STAMINA
points. Looking down at the landscape from your lofty
vantage-point, you can see clearly as far as the edge of
the hills to the Desert of Skulls and as far south as the
Bay of Elkor. If you have a Brass Telescope and wish
to use it, turn to 256. Otherwise, turn to 235.

388
You strain against the chains but your arduous adven-
ture has exhausted you too much for you to be able to

389-390

break them. The ritual reaches its climax and the High
Priestess turns to face you. ‘And now, Lord Akharis,
Destroyer of Cities and Favoured of Sithera,’ the High
Priestess intones, ‘take this mortal’s life-energies and
live again!’ Your adventure ends here.

389

‘The Shaman of the. Wilderlands has his abode at Spirit
Rock, a league to the east. But be warned, the lands
beyond here are home to all manner of primitive and
inhuman tribes.’ You thank Cranno for his information
(make a note of Cranno’s Warning on your Adventure
Sheet). Now will you ask him whether he can aid you
on your quest (turn to 339), or will you leave the
theatre without further delay (turn to 8)?

390
Wedging the paper package in the middle of the
blockage, you light the fuse then run for cover towards
the turning in the passageway. Before you can even
teach it, the Firepowder explodes with a deafening
boom. Dust showers down from cracks in the ceiling
and the walls shudder under the force of the explosion.
Test your Luck. If you are Lucky, turn to 319. If you are
Unlucky, turn to 264.

LC} E

391-394

391
Choosing a route up the side of Spirit Rock which
seems to offer you the greatest number of hand- and
foot-holds, you climb towards the cave entrance, fifty
metres above you. Test your Skill three times. If you
are successful every time, turn to 333. If you fail any
of the rolls, turn at once to 279.

392
Restore both your sTAMINA and sKILL to their Initial
scores, and regain 2 LUCK points. You can also reduce
your POISON total by 8 points. Feeling refreshed and
rejuvenated, you leave the room along the new corri-
dor; turn to 16.

393
You enter a long room which is lined on both sides

with the statutes of Djaratian kings. At the end of the
room is a raised platform on which rests an omate
gilded chest, its lid adorned with falcon heads at each
corner. You can see nothing else. If you want to take a
closer look at the chest, turn to 356. Otherwise, you
leave the chamber and are faced with the choice of
going through the other door (turn to 177) or along
the new passageway (turn to 239).

394
You and Farr chase along the back street after the

cultist but lose him among the hustle and bustle of an
animal market. Then you catch sight of a red-robed
figure, on the opposite side of the square, moving
away from you. As you elbow your way through the

395-396

crowd, you see a trader’s cage swing open and, with
a roar, its occupant leaps into the crowd. As the
throng of people vanishes, you and Farr find your-
selves alone in the middle of the square, facing the
newly escaped Black Lion. Angry at having been
locked up in a confined space and confused by its
unnatural surroundings, the beast strikes Farr with one
great paw, knocking him to the ground. You have no
choice now but to try to stop the enraged animal.

BLACK LION SKILL 9

If you win, tum to 28.

STAMINA 9

395
Before you stands the forbidding black pyramid that is

the Temple of Sithera! Your quarry and your fate lie
within. At the foot of the pyramid, an avenue of pillars
leads up to a large, dark opening, in front of which
you can see two guards dressed in Djaratian garb. Will
you boldly walk up to the entrance (tum to 132) or
look for another way into the temple (turn to 208)?

You cannot have gone more than twenty metres along
the passage when you feel a slab shift under your foot
as you take your next step. Test your Luck. If you are
Lucky, turn to 201. If you are Unlucky, turn to 318.

Cl Ee

397

397
The High Priestess of the Cult of the Cobra falls to the

dais with a dying cry: ‘Oh Sithera, aid us now! Then
she breathes no more. You have succeeded in prevent-
ing the Priestess from completing the Ritual of Resur-
rection (regain 1 LUCK point)! Hearing angry shouts,
you turn to see the now reorganized cultists advancing
towards you. While you are wondering how you are
going to get out of this situation alive, the cult
suddenly stop, their attention focused on the dais
behind you. With a lump in your throat, you turn to
see that the eyes of the great statue of the goddess are
glowing with a sinister light. A bandaged hand then
rises above the lip of the stone coffin and grips the
edge, followed by another, and the decomposing body
of Akharis rises from the sarcophagus. The Mummy
stands, almost two metres tall, and the long-dead
Djaratian king pierces you with a look of pure hatred!
Akharis’s evil goddess must have intervened and used
her dark powers from the Demonic Plane to complete
the resurrection of her loyal servant. You must stop
this horror or Akharis’s curse will still be fulfilled. The
Mummy moans balefully and lumbers stiffly towards
you. You are going to have to act quickly to destroy
Akharis. Will you:

Use fire against the Mummy? Turn to 330
Use the Waters of Life (if you have

them)? Turn to 64
Try to use some earthenware jars (if

you have any)? Turn to 118
Use some other charm? Turn to 85

398-400

Try to remove Akharis’s death-mask? Turn to 293
Try to destroy the sarcophagus from

which he was raised? Turn to 257
Attack the Mummy with your
sword? Turn to 97

398
Having broken the seal, you unstopper the bottle.
Immediately the swirling black smoke flows out of the
bottle and forms into a vaguely humanoid-shaped
cloud. You are just aware of a pair of darkly glinting
eyes before the malevolent Nanka envelops you com-
pletely and flows back into the bottle, taking you with
it! Your adventure ends here.

399
As you fight, the other undead surround you, their
bandaged fists pounding into your body relentlessly
until you can put up no further resistance. Your adven-
ture is over.

400
With a final, terrible, thundering roar, the Temple of
Sithera crashes to the ground — but you have already
gone ... The world solidifies round you again, and
you find yourself in the familiar surroundings of
Lopar’s cave inside Spirit Rock. The Shaman looks
drained after casting the teleportation spell that
brought you here, but you can also sense his relief.
You are suddenly overcome by exhaustion, now that
you are able to relax properly for the first time in
days.

400

Eventually Lopar speaks: ‘Your bravery, skill and quick
wits have foiled Akharis’s retum to power and, for
that, hundreds of unknowing people owe you a debt
that can never be paid. But now you must rest. Lie
down beside the fire and sleep.’ And sleep you do,
secure in the knowledge that you have thwarted the
nefarious plans of the Cult of the Cobra and saved all
Allansia from the Curse of the Mummy.

More Fighting Fantasy by Wizard Books

The Warlock of Firetop Mountain
Steve Jackson and lan Livingstone

Deep in the caverns beneath Firetop Mountain lies an untold
wealth of treasure, guarded by a powerful Warlock — or so the
rumour goes. Several adventurers like yourself have set off for
Firetop Mountain in search of the Warlock’s hoard. None has
ever returned. Do you dare follow them?

Your quest is to find the Warlock’s treasure, hidden deep within
a dungeon populated with a multitude of terrifying monsters.
You will need courage, determination and a fair amount of luck
if you are to survive all the traps and battles, and reach your
goal ~ the innermost chambers of the Warlock’s domain.

1 84046 387 2

The Citadel of Chaos
Steve Jackson

Deep inside the Citadel of Chaos, the dread sorcerer Balthus
Dire is plotting the downfall of the goodfolk of the Vale of
Willow. His battle plans are laid, his avesome army equipped,
and attack is surely imminent.

Summoned by a desperate plea for help, YOU are the Vale of
Willow's only hope. As star pupil of the Grand Wizard of Yore
and a master sorcerer yourself, you must strike at the very
heart of Balthus Dire’s nightmare world. Though you command
many powerful spells, the quest may be deadly, for who knows
what creatures lie in wait in the Citadel of Chaos?

1 84046 389 9

Deathtrap Dungeon
lan Livingstone

Down in the dark twisting labyrinth of Fang, unknown horrors
await you. Devised by the devilish mind of Baron Sukumvit,
the labyrinth is riddled with fiendish traps and bloodthirsty
monsters, which will test your skills almost beyond the limit
of endurance.

Countless adventurers before you have taken up the challenge
of the Trial of Champions and walked through the carved mouth
of the labyrinth, never to be seen again. Should you come out
of the labyrinth alive, you will be wealthy beyond your dreams.
Do YOU dare enter?

1 84046 388 0

Creature of Havoc
Steve Jackson

Evil is festering in Trolltooth Pass. The necromancer Zharradan
Marr is close to stealing the secrets of Elven magic which would
make him invincible. Nothing could then prevent his legions of
Chaos from taking over the whole of Allansia ...

But what do you know or care about all this? In this unique
adventure, YOU are the Creature of Havoc, a monstrous beast
with a taste for fighting. Ruled only by hunger and rage, you
have no knowledge of your past or destiny. If you survive, you
may begin to control your bestial nature and learn your true
purpose, but success is by no means certain, for the traps and
terrors of Trolltooth Pass are many ...

1 84046 391 0
City of Thieves
lan Livingstone

Terror stalks the night as Zanbar Bone and his bloodthirsty
Moon Dogs hold the prosperous town of Silverton to ransom.
YOU are an adventurer, a sword for hire, and the merchants of
Silverton turn to you in their hour of need.

Your mission takes you along the dark, twisting streets of Port
Blacksand to seek the help of the wizard Nicodemus. But
Blacksand is riddled with thieves, assassins and foul creatures.
Should you survive, you must journey to the most terrible place
of all — the tower stronghold of the Night Prince himself,
Zanbar Bone!

1 84046 397 X

Crypt of the Sorcerer
lan Livingstone

An ancient evil is stirring in the bowels of the earth, and the
land is blighted. After being entombed for one hundred years,
the necromancer Razaak has been re-awoken and is poised to
fulfil his promise of death and tyranny. His army of undead are
at large across Allansia bringing death and destruction to all
who resist.

It is up to YOU to find the only weapon to which Razaak is
vulnerable — his own magic sword! Only then might you survive
the dangers that await you in his evil lair - the Crypt of the
Sorcerer!

1 84046 396 1

House of Hell
Steve Jackson

Stranded miles from anywhere on a dark and stormy night, your
only hope of refuge is the strange, ramshackle mansion you can
see in the distance ...

But entering the House of Hell hurls you into an adventure of
spine-chilling and blood-curdling terror. The dangers of the
torrential storm outside are nothing compared to the
nightmarish creatures that await you within its gruesome walls.

Be warned! You must try to keep your fear under control -
collect too many FEAR points and you will die of fright. Can
you make it through the night without being scared — to
death?

1 84046 417 8

Sorcery! 1: The Shamutanti Hills
Steve Jackson

Based on the best-selling Fighting Fantasy gamebook system,
The Shamutanti Hills is Book One in Steve Jackson's Sorcery!
series. Your epic quest will take you across the mysterious hills
to the cityport of Kharé, but only if you outwit the creatures,
traps and wizardry you encounter along the way.

Play as either a warrior or as a wizard. If you choose wizardry,
your survival will depend on your knowledge of the Sorcery!
Spell Book's darkest secrets. With many other unique features to
discover, Sorcery! is a true challenge for novice and veteran
adventurers alike.

1 84046 430 5

Eye of the Dragon
lan Livingstone

In a tavern in Fang, a mysterious stranger offers YOU the
chance to find the Golden Dragon, perhaps the most valuable
treasure in all of Allansia. But it is hidden in a labyrinth beneath
Darkwood Forest and is guarded by the most violent creatures
and deadly traps.

To begin your quest YOU must drink a life-threatening potion,
and to succeed you must find maps, clues, artefacts, magic
items, jewels and an imprisoned dwarf.

1 84046 642 1

Talisman of Death
Steve Jackson and lan Livingstone

The once-peaceful world of Orb is in terrible danger. Dark
forces are at work to unleash the awesome might of the Evil
One — and only YOU can stop them.

YOUR mission is to destroy the Talisman of Death before the
Dark Lord's minions reach you. But beware! Time is running
out...

1 84046 566 2

Sword of the Samurai
Steve Jackson and lan Livingstone

The land of Hachiman is in grave danger. The Shogun’s control
is slipping. Bandits roam the land freely and barbarian invaders
have begun to raid across the borders. All this because the
Dai-Katana — the great sword Singing Death — has been stolen
from the Shogun.

YOU are the Shogun’s champion, a young Samurai. Your
mission is to recover this wondrous sword from Ikiru, the
Master of Shadows, who holds it hidden deep in the Pit of
Demons.

1 84046 732 0

Bloodbones
Steve Jackson and fan Livingstone

Bloodbones Lives!

The dreaded pirate-lord Cinnabar, scourge of the twelve seas,
plagued the seafarers of the Old World in a bloody reign of
terror until a brave adventurer put an end to his evil. But now
he is back from the dead, seeking revenge, with the dark
powers of voodoo at his command.

YOU have your own score to settle - Cinnabar murdered your
family when you were a child. Only YOU can end the horrific
slaughter by destroying the pirate captain and his crew of cut-
throats. Come hell or high water Bloodbones must be stopped!

1 84046 765 7
The Official Fighting Fantasy Website , ls 2:
o y - \ “

www.fightingfantasy.com

Visit the website for...

© Latest news on FF gamebooks and events DRAGON : TA a ae
* The Adventurers’ Guild, the official Fighting Fantasy Club! * cw
¢ Competitions, Monster Gallery and gamebook maps

¢ Download screensavers, wallpaper, bookmarks and much
more ...

¢ Exclusive information on all forthcoming FF gamebooks,

including previews of cover art : — —
= | SWORD | BigooBoneS =| CURSE0F

Cae need rae MUMMY

}
}

>.

A a

~,

ie

(SORCERY) | (SORCERY!

ie D APPOINTMENT i EMPLE OF
Fexsus | FAR TERROR

The Official Fighting Fantasy Website | Meg

www.fightingfantasy.com

Visit the website for...

e Latest news on FF gamebooks and events DRAGON STARSHL en nee ae Rey a
ra ” * ie

TRAVELLE
e The Adventurers’ Guild, the official Fighting Fantasy Club! bes ae =
e Competitions, Monster Gallery and gamebook maps A BY y . ‘ — é

¢ Download screensavers, wallpaper, bookmarks and much
more ...

é

¢ Exclusive information on all forthcoming FF gamebooks,

including previews of cover art : ett
BP BioovponeS | CURSEoF

PSA MBE AT) =! rae MUMMY
porn pitllene* a ¥ vs

eZ

ie 5
= -.

ISLA ND AP om MONT

The Official Fighting Fantasy Website ‘the : Ey

www.fightingfantasy.com

Visit the website for...

e Latest news on FF gamebooks and events

¢ The Adventurers’ Guild, the official Fighting Fantasy Club!
¢ Competitions, Monster Gallery and gamebook maps

¢ Download screensavers, wallpaper, bookmarks and much
more ...

e Exclusive information on all forthcoming FF gamebooks,
including previews of cover art

SWORD Bi OODBONES

SAMURA “

*,

CURSE OL VII72 MUM

Helping an eccentric archaeologist unearth an ancien
tomb in the Desert of Skulls seems like an easy task for
heroic adventurer like YOU. But when that tomb turm

out to belong to Akharis — a legendary ruler from a
previous age — and when you discover some of his
followers are trying to return the evil pharaoh to lif
YOU must act quickly.

of the Muinnay! It twill take a real “i to defeat
and win the treasure. Dare YOU take on the challe

7
~~

il i

1840"468U;,

Wizard Books UK £4.99
Canada $10.00

Tae Glee ,

INOLSONIAI NVI
NOSNOVI JAILS

IAN LIVINGSTONE

Anh AKO?
HOVI LL LV 1

AT Dicnting Fantasy Camebohe
In which YOU are the kero

