wi lf : eer e +e if :

The Riddling Reaver is an opponent worthy
of the most daring adventurers. His mind is
inscrutable — but there is no doubt about the
chaos he plans to unleash on the world. He
must be stopped, despite the hazards of the
task!

This book is a follow-up to Fighting Fantasy:
the Introductory Role-playing Game. It
contains instructions and scenarios so
that you, as GamesMaster, can conjure up
adventures for your friends, and send them
on their most dangerous and puzzling
mission yet — to confront the Riddling
Reaver.

FIGHTING FANTASY BOOKS
a world-wide sensation!

Cover illustralion by Peter Andrew Jones,
copytight(©) Solar Wind Ltd.

A PUFFIN BOOK
ISBN 0-14- Ce oy

$3.50

ea pp a ddven
y ax a
om a ee ‘i= ‘
——— ——

TAvOY SUTTPPIY AL NOSMOVI AAALS

Xx mizo
vie mes:

| DO00
£1.95
. $6.95
{recommended}
$6 99 i
incl. GST}
‘78014 0°32 1562

“wr .
PUFFIN BOOKS
THE RIDDLING REAVER

In Fighting Fantasy — The Introductory Role-playing Game, an extra
dimension was added to the Puffin Fighting Fantasy Game-
books. The simple and fast-moving game system invented by
Steve Jackson and Ian Livingstone allows yau, as GamesMaster
in a full-fledged role-playing game, to invent thrilling missions
on which to send a group of your friends. They make the
decisions; you judge the results of their decisions

Now The Riddling Reaver brings you four action-packed scenar-
ios to use within the game rules of Fighting Fantasy. The scenar-
ios may be played as separate adventures or as interlocking
pieces in a single adventure of epic proportions, The common
thread is provided by that most ciusive of villains — the Riddling
Reaver himself, He will taunt, harass and trick the players at
every turn, as they try to thwart his dastardly plot. Allansia will
be plhinged ito Primal Chaos if the Riddling Reaver succeeds,
Can the adventurers prevent him? Y OU will decide
NNRRReH RRM YP eee
NROW OY AUER wW NY HY SG

N
Ww

24

fC ON Au AY DP a

FIGHTING FANTASY GAMEBOOKS

. THE WARLOCK OF FIRETOP MOUNTAIN
. THE CITADEL OF CHAOS

THE FOREST OF DOOM
STARSHIP TRAVELLER

CITY OF THIEVES
DEATHTRAP DUNGEON
ISLAND OF THE LIZARD KING

. SCORPION SWAMP

. CAVERNS OF THE SNOW WITCH
. HOUSE OF HELL

. TALISMAN OF DEATH

SPACE ASSASSIN
FREEWAY FIGHTER

. TEMPLE OF TERROR

THE RINGS OF KETHER
SEAS OF BLOOD
APPOINTMENT WITH F.E.A R.

. REBEL PLANET
. DEMONS OF THE DEEP
. SWORD OF THE SAMURAI

TRIAL OF CHAMPIONS
ROBOT COMMANDO
MASKS OF MAYHEM
CREATURE OF HAVOC

Steve Jackson’s SORCERY!

1
2

3
4

FIGHTING FANTASY - The Introductory Role-playing Game *

The Shamutanti Hiils
Kharé — Cityport of Traps
The Seven Serpents

The Crown of Kings

OUT OF THE PIT - Fighting Fantasy Monsters
TITAN -— The Fighting Fantasy World

Edited by
STEVE JACKSON

THE

RIDDLING
REAVER

Paul Mason and Steve Williams

Hlustrated by
Brian Williams and Leo Hartas

Puffin Books

To Carolina and my feet (without whom I would have
been unable to get up in the morning)

Puffin Books, Penguin Books Lid, Harmondsworth, Middlesex, England
Viking Penguin Inc , 40 West 23rd Slreet, New York, New York 10010, U.S A
Penguin Books Australia Ltd, Ringwood, Victoria, Austraha
Penguin Books Canada Limited, 2801 John Street, Markham, Ontario, Canada
L3R 1B4
Penguin Books (N Z ) Ltd, 182-190 Wairau Road, Auckland 10, New Zealand

First published 1986

Copyright © Steve Jackson, Paul Mason and Steve Williams, 1986
Mlustrations copyright © Bnan Williams and Leo Hartas, 1986
All rights reserved

Made and printed in Great Britain by
Cox & Wyman Lid, Reading
Filmset in Linotron Palatino by
Rowland Phototypesetting Ltd,
Bury St Edmunds, Suffolk

Except in the United Slates of America,
this book is sold subject to the condition
that it shall not, by way of trade or otherwise,
be lent, re-sold, hired out, or otherwise circulated
without the publisher's prior consent in any form of
binding or cover other than that in which it is
published and without a similar condition
including this condition being imposed
on Lhé subsequent purchaser

CONTENTS

Introduction
7
For the GamesMaster
9
Act One: The Curse of Kallamehr
24
Act Two: Voyage of Enigma
73
Act Three: The Pendulum of Fate
121
Act Four: The Realm of Entropy
177
INTRODUCTION

Welcome to the world of Fighting Fantasy role-
playing! 4

You and your friends are about to embark on an
epic quest, one that will take you from the splen-
dour of Kallamehr, across the treacherous Gulf of
Shamuz, and into the sweaty southern jungles of
Allansia. Throughout your quest, you will be
chased, taunted, led astray, bedevilled and gener-
ally harassed by the most unpredictable of enemies
— the Riddling Reaver.

This game works well with three players (and one
GamesMaster), better with four players, and best
with five players, which is probably also the max-
imum number desirable.

In order to use this book, you must have Fighting
Fantasy — The Introductory Role-playing Game by Steve
Jackson, which contains a full explanation of the
tules of the game, and details of equipment and so
on that players have. If you are the GamesMaster,
then you should make sure that you are familiar
with the Fighting Fantasy system before starting to
run the game. You will also find it very useful to
have Out of the Pit, the compendium of Fighting
Fantasy monsters, and Titan, the guide to the world
of Fighting Fantasy.

This book contains four adventures for you to
play. To get the most out of them, you should play

7
them in order, as ‘chapters’ in a ‘story’. However
you may, if you wish, decide to play them separate-
ly. Before you sit down to play the game, you must
decide which one of you is to be the GamesMaster.
Once you have decided this, the GamesMaster must
read through the adventure to get a good grasp of
the story.

It is vital that none of the other players are allowed
to read the adventure: if they do there will be no
surprises and little excitement for them in the game.
Only the GamesMaster should refer to this book
and he will decide what the players get to see and
learn. The only book the players may look at is
Fighting Fantasy, which tells them how to create and
equip their adventurers.

IF YOU ARE GOING TO PLAY IN THE
ADVENTURES, STOP READING NOW!

FOR THE GAMESMASTER

The Riddling Reaver is a being with many guises.
Among bawdy yokels, he will seem to be a rumbus-
tious fellow of mirth and merriment. When at the
court of some noble, however, he will be full of
charm, chivalry and courtly etiquette — the perfect
diplomat.

This chameleonic ability has allowed our schem-
ing friend to blend into many communities, where
he has gleefully spread chaos and disorder, turned
brother against brother, and always escaped justice.
All this he did in the name of his masters, the
Trickster Gods of Luck and Chance (see Titan for
more details). But now he is plotting a scheme so
grand, so apocalyptic, so downright devious, that
the dastardly Balthus Dire would wince with abject
jealousy were he to hear of it!

In these adventures, your players will soon en-
counter the quizzical, enigmatic trappings of the
Reaver. While he may seem whimsical, he is not to
be trifled with. An unpredictable enemy is a deadly
enemy. Still, the adventurers must stop the Reaver
if his perilous plan is not to come to fruition and
plunge Allansia into Primal Chaos.

Creative GamesMastering

There will be times when the adventurers decide to
do something which is not covered by the text. Here
you must do some creative GamesMastering (this is
explained further on pages 19-20 of Fighting Fan-
tasy). To give you some more help, here are a few
do’s and don’ts:

DO make sure the players understand how to fight
and use their equipment before the adventure
begins, since explaining the rules during the
game can be terribly boring.

DON'T get frustrated if the players are not doing
exactly what you expect them to; after all, it is their
adventure.

DO make sure you know what all the magical items,
potions and spells do; but don’t give their secrets
away to the players until it is necessary.

DON’T play too long! It is far better to make the
game a series of cliff-hangers than have it peter
out.

DO tell your players to keep accurate records of
their SKILL, STAMINA ANd LUCK Scores, as wellas
their possessions.

Restoring STAMINA and LUCK

The four scenarios in this book are packed with
hazards, and adventurers may find that they lose
STAMINA and LUCK quite quickly. It is important
that you give them the opportunity to replenish
these scores, otherwise they will die before they get
a chance to complete the story.

10

Both STAMINA and Luck can be restored by
magic (spells, potions or scrolls). They may also be
recovered in other ways. STAMINA may be in-
creased by eating Provisions. As explained on page
42 of Fighting Fantasy, you should allow adventurers
to eat Provisions at any time that they may reason-
ably do so (in other words, notin the thick of battle).
Players should keep track of how many Provisions
their characters have by means of their Adventure
Sheets.

LUCK may be recovered through Luck bonuses (see
page 40 of Fighting Fantasy). If a player comes up
with an idea that is particularly fortunate for the
adventurers, then you should award them between
1 and 3 points of Luck. This may never take their
LUCK above its Initial level.

Equipment

Fach adventurer will begin the game with the fol-
lowing equipment:

A sword

A backpack

A coil of rope

10 Provisions

No potions

Note that additional equipment may be obtained
during the adventures. All equipment carried by the
adventurers should be noted down on the Adventure
Sheet.

i1

SSS. SSS. QcqQ_q
Adventure Structure

To make things easier for the GamesMaster, the
story has been split into four separate parts (or Acts,
as we have called them). Each Act opens with a
Players’ Tale (which is to be read out) and a Games-
Master’s Tale (which is to give you an idea of what the
Act is all about). The Acts are split into Scenes,
which follow the format used in Fighting Fantasy.
For example, in Act One, the adventurers race
around various locations in Kallamehr, trying to
find the items required to fulfil their quest. A set of
locations that fit together makes up a Scene. The
Scene will be illustrated with a map, showing the
locations within it. These locations will have num-
bered references so that you can find your way
around them easily.

Each Scene will have Tasks. When the adventur-
ers successfully complete the Tasks, the Scene is
over, and they may proceed to another Scene.

Although the Acts are designed to be played in
order, it is possible to play them individually. In
some cases you can change the order you play the
Acts in, so that Act Two follows Act Three, for
instance.

The Players’ Tale, and any other section which is
printed in italics, is to be read out to the players.

Creatures in the Adventures

While there are a number of new creatures in this
book, many more can be found in Out of the Pit.

12

Consult it if you need further details about a mons-
ter, or want to introduce other monsters.

Creatures in the adventures will not always fight
to the death. One way in which you can be kind to
your players is by having monsters flee when they
are getting low on STAMINA, or when their allies
have been killed.

Unless otherwise stated, all creatures in the
adventures have an ATTACKS score of one.

New Rules

Here are a few additional rules which experienced
GMs may like to add to their games for that extra
touch of realism.

LUinconsciousness

Ina solo Fighting Fantasy book, should your sTAM-
INA score be reduced to zero, then you die. How-
ever, since in a multi-player game you have com-
tades who can come to your rescue, it is fairer to
allow you a chance of survival.

So, if your STAMINA Should be reduced to zero,
you are merely unconscious. If your sTAMINA is
reduced to ~1, then you have been mortally
wounded, If your STAMINA is —2 or less, you have
been hacked to pieces, and there is no hope for you!

Unconscious characters will wake up after a num-
ber of minutes (roll two dice to find how many).
When they wake up, they will have 1 point of
STAMINA.

13

Meee cg lc EU CLCLU L
Mortally wounded characters require assistance
from others. Potions or spells are the only way of
reviving a mortally wounded character. These
should be used to raise the character’s STAMINA
above zero. If they are unsuccessful, the poor char-
acter has bled to death!

Note that these rules about unconsciousness do
not apply to the players’ opponents.

Weapons

It stands to reason that hitting someone with an
enormous battle-axe is going to hurt far more than
poking them with a black pudding. In Fighting
Fantasy all weapons were treated as the same, to
keep the game simple and fast-paced. Some Games-
Masters, however, may like to add that extra edge of
realism to their games by varying the amounts of
damage that weapons inflict. In the system pre-
sented below, damage will be determined by rolling
a die.

The table below shows the damage done by a
selection of death-dealing implements, commonly
used by adventurers and monsters alike. To use it,
first locate the relevant weapon on the chart. Then
read along to find out how the roll of a die will
determine the number of STAMINA points lost by
the opponent for every successful Attack Round.
Note that a sword, an adventurer’s standard
weapon, still does the usual 2 points, as does a mace
(another favourite).

14

Weapon Damage Die Roll

1 2 3 4 5 6
Battle-axe 1 2 2 2 2 3
Dagger 1 1 2 2 2 2
Mace 2 2 2 2 2 2
Spear 1 1 2 2 3 3
Morning star* 1 2 2 2 3 3
Sword 2 2 2 2 2 2
Two-handed
swordt 2 2 2 3 + 3

* Adventurer fights at —1 SKILL
t Adventurer fights at —2 SKILL

For example: Mhagi the Thrasher is wielding a
wicked morning star (a spiked metal ball on the end
of a length of chain). Since it is difficult to control
such a weapon, his sxrLt of 7 is reduced to 6. If his
Attack Strength is greater than his opponent's, he
rolls a die and consults the above table to find out
how much damage he does. Suppose he is in a
desperate battle with Lord Zlargh: if he rolls 5 or 6,
he does 3 points of damage to Zlargh. Pity him if he
rolls 1 too many times, though!

In order to speed up combat, you may like to
modify ordinary dice so that they give the damage
for particular weapons. You could, for example,
have a blue die for a spear. You paint out the dots on
this blue die until there are two faces with one dot,
two faces with two dots and two faces with three
dots. Then you can just roll this die to determine the
Spear’s effectiveness, instead of consulting the

15

cee, es eee
above table. Do the same sort of thing with different
dice in different colours, to use for other weapons.

Certain creatures will use weapons, in which case
they will also have the opportunity to roll dice for
their damage. If they are using aclaw, orsome other
weapon not listed above, then they will do the
standard 2 points, unless their description tells you
otherwise.

Mighty Strike

There are times — either by incredible luck or by deft
timing — when an adventurer’s blow will strike with
extra force, or find a weak chink in an opponent's
armour. To account for this, GamesMasters may
like to introduce Mighty Strikes to their game.

A Mighty Strike occurs when a character in a
battle rolls double six for his Attack Strength. When
this happens, the character automatically mortally
wounds the opponent (i.e. the opponent's sTAmM-
INA is reduced to —1).

Magic

To add extra spice to the adventures, you may allow
one of the adventurers to be a wizard. Because he
has spent so much time poring over dusty tomes,
and had so little exercise, this character will have the
minimum STAMINA score of 14. Since he has had no
training in weapons, his SKILL score will be found
by rolling one die and adding 4, rather than the

16

usual 6. However, he makes up for this with an
important extra characteristic — his MAGIC score.
Roll two dice and add 6. Enter this ina MAGIC box
on thecharacter’s Adventure Sheet. It determines how
many spells the adventurer may use in each Act.
Before the adventure commences, the wizard’s
player must choose which spells he will have from
the list below. Every time he uses a spell he must
cross it off his list. He may choose more than one of
each spell. Wizards should beware: some spells may
not work on some opponents!

Spell-casting — Hit or Miss?

Spells do not work automatically. There is always a
chance of failure, even for the greatest of mages.
Whenever a wizard tries to cast a spell, he should
roll three dice. If the result is less than his MAGIC
score, then the spell will work correctly. If the result
is equal to or greater than his MAGIC score, however,
something has gone wrong. The GamesMaster
should decide what happens: it may be that the spell
simply fails; or, worse still, it may misfire and affect
the wizard or his comrades. For example, a mis-
firing Creature Copy spell might create a copy of the
wizard himself, who would then proceed to engage
the unfortunate sorcerer in a raucous argument
about who was the real wizard! Misfires should be
humorous rather than deadly — there is enough
danger in the adventures already!

Even if a spell misfires, it should still be crossed
off the wizard’s list.

Certain spells are listed as having a Standard Dura-

27

ee =|

tion. This means that the GamesMaster should
secretly roll three dice when the spell is cast. This
determines the number of minutes for which the
spell is in effect.

Creature Copy

This spell wiil allow the wizard to conjure up an
exact duplicate of any creature he or his comrades
are fighting. The duplicate will have the same SKILL
and STAMINA scores, and the same powers, as the
original. But the duplicate will be under the control
of the wizard’s will and he may, for example, in-
struct it to attack the original creature and then sit
back and watch the battle! Standard Duration.

ESP
With this spell the wizard will be able to tune in to
psychic wavelengths. It will not let him read some-
one’s thoughts, but it will indicate general frames of
mind. For example, it will tell the wizard whether
someone is angry, friendly, honest or hiding some-
thing. It is very useful for rooting out impostors.

Fire

Almost every creature is afraid of fire, and this spell
allows the wizard to conjure up fire at will. He may
cause a small explosion on the ground, which will
burn for several seconds and cause its targets to lose
an amount of STAMINA determined by rolling one
die. Or he may create a wall of fire, to keep creatures
atbay (crossing the wall willcause 3 pointsofdamage).
The wall of fire lasts for the Standard Duration.

18

Fool’s Gold
This spell will turn ordinary rock into a pile of what
appears to be gold. However, it is merely a form of
[liusion spell, although more reliable, The spell lasts
for the Standard Duration, after which the ‘gold’
reverts to rock.

Illusion

This is a powerful spell, but it has its limitations. By
means of this spell the wizard may create a convinc-
ing illusion (for example, that there is a bridge over a
gaping chasm, or that the floor is covered with hot
coals) with which to fool one creature. The spell will
immediately be cancelled if anything happens
which dispels the illusion (for example, if someone
steps out on to the illusory bridge). An illusion can
never lead to the laws of nature being broken —
while a creature may receive illusory damage from
an illusory sword, it will in fact do no physical
damage. It is all in the mind! Even if he becomes
unconscious, when he recovers he will find he has
sustained no actual injuries.

Levitation
The wizard may cast this spell on to objects, oppo-
nents and even himself. Ii frees its target from the
effects of gravity and causes them to float freely in
the air under the wizard’s control. It is not a Flying
spell: the wizard may only move the target up and
down. The spell lasts for the Standard Duration.

Ba
Luck
When cast, this spell will restore an adventurer’s
LucK score by half its Initial value (if his Initial LUCK
score is an odd number, then round off the number
downwards). This spell can never raise a LUCK
score above its Initial level. The spell can never be
cast while the wizard is in combat.

Shielding
Casting this spell creates an invisible, immobile
shield in front of the wizard and up to six compan-
ions, which protects them from physical objects
such as arrows, swords or creatures. The shield is
not effective against magic and, of course, just as
nothing outside it can touch the wizard and his
friends, so they will not be able to touch anything
outside it. The shield lasts for the Standard Duration.

Skill
This spell is identical to the Luck spell, except that it
works on the adventurer’s SKILL score.

Stamina
This spell is identical to the Luck spell, except that it
works on the adventurer’s STAMINA SCOTe.

Strength
This spell has the effect of increasing the wizard’s
strength to that of a Troll when it comes to heaving,
humping and battering (for example, when lifting
heavy boulders, battering down locked doors, etc.).
The GamesMaster should use his judgement to

20

decide what may or may not be achieved, bearing in
mind that using too much strength for a task may
have disastrous results! The spell will only last for
one Major action (battering one door down, heaving
one boulder, etc. }.

Weakness
Strong creatures are reduced to miserable weaklings
by this spell. The GamesMaster should roll one die
twice, first for the victim’s SKILL and then for its
STAMINA score — this shows by how much these
scores will be reduced. The weakness will last for
one combat only.

21
ADVENTURE SHEET

-

SKILL STAMINA LUCK
Initral nati! initial
Skill= Stamina= Lucke
EQUIPMENT PROVISIONS
LIST REMAINING

—_——

——

MONSTER ENCOUNTER BOXES

| ul=

Sk il {=

Skill=
Stanza 4 Stemine= Slanuute
| sein = Siill= Skil} =
Stamirna= Stomim= Stamina
{
| Seite = Skilf= Sei
| Stoomieur= Stantiia= Staminu=
| Skat= Skiti= Skint=
Stomiunm= Sian Stamina
‘ ——:

ACT ONE
THE CURSE OF KALLAMEHR

Players’ Tale

You have been trekking across Allansia, in search of
adventure, excitement —and above all treasure! Forsaking
the western shores, you headed south, and came to the land
of Kallamehr, which ts ruled by the noble house of Rangor.
Compared to the hardships you faced on the journey,
Kallamehr promises comfort and rich pickings. Judging by
the rounded bellies of the traders you have passed on the
road, business must be good around here.

After two months’ solid travelling, interrupted only by
the occasional skirmish with beasts and bandits, you have
caught the scent of the sea in the wind. The road broadens
as it approaches the town of Kallamehr, and you see its
famous tower looming majestically in the distance. As you
draw near the town, you catch sight of the sprawling
collection of buildings which huddle beneath the tower.
The twisting architecture ts strange to your northern eyes;
it seems to have no order to it. You wonder how on earth
people can live in such chaotic squalor.

An imposing pair of gates looms before you. Strangely,
no guards seem to be around, and the gates are open. You
can make out the faint sound of shouting from the other
side of town, but the houses block your vision and you
cannot see what the commotion ts about.

As you stand in the gateway, you hear thumping from
the gatehouse to your left. Someone seems to be trying to
attract your attention.

24

‘In the name of charity, let me out!’ a tiny voice
implores. ‘Surely I, one of Baron Bluestone’s most loyal
subjects, should have the right to witness his struggle? Let
me out!’

Edging closer, you see a man’s gaunt face pressed
against the door's grille. Manacled hands grip the bars,
and tears stain his grubby face. He does not look much like
a loyal citizen to you, and he has almost certainly been
locked in the gatehouse for a good reason, There are no keys
near by,

Abandoning him to his fate, you hurry towards the
sound of the crowd, which gets louder as you get closer.
Carts sit unattended, stalls unguarded, and livestock runs
free. Minutes after leaving the gate, you arrive at the
central square — the scene of the commotion. Packed into
the square is a vast crowd (surely the entire population of
Kallamehr, apart from the wretch in the gatehouse!). Each
pair of eyes is fixed on the top of the tower, where a spindly
figure is struggling to free himself from the clutches of a
short robed man, who in turn ts trying to force the other off
the edge of the balcony. The spindly man is teetering on the
edge, With every twist and turn the onlookers gasp ever
touder. The tension is unbearable. J

Sy tae

. il li a | rel

GamesMaster’s Tale

The scenario begins with the players arriving at
Rangor Tower, pride of the wealthy merchant-lords
of Kallamehr, just in time to witness the Baron’s last
moments. Having failed to prevent his death, the
players will become embroiled in its aftermath.
After investigation they will come across a myste-
Hous box left by the villain, the Riddling Reaver.
The box contains a scroll with obscure riddles, by
means of which the Reaver sets the characters a
challenge: they must assemble three items from the
town (the solutions to the riddles) and cast them
into the sea at Brion’s Bluff, the westernmost tip of
the peninsula. So the characters will have to search
the town for the items; they will encounter various
villains, cut-throats, innocents and traps. The trip
round the town will be conducted in one Scene. The
players must successfully complete the crucial loca-
tions in order to assemble the three items. The
adventure ends as these are cast from the cliff, and
the players await results. . .

27

Scene One: Tower Trouble

Tasks: Meet Lady Carolina. Find and open the
Riddler’s box.

1

You are in the throng of townspeople, struggling to avoid
being crushed against the sea wall. People are shrieking in
disbelief, and pandemonium reigns. You guess that it is
the Baron up there, fighting for his life. But why?

Nobody seems able to do anything; guardsmen are
pounding in vain on the mighty oaken doors ofthe tower.
The crowd just stands and stares.

The sea crashes against vicious rocks at the foot of the
cliff below the tower. Now is your chance to demonstrate
your heroism. Can you save the Baron? But how do you
reach him?

The players must come up with some way of
reaching the top of the tower. Although ingenious
players may think of others, there are three main
ways in which this can be achieved. Firstly, they
may join in the assault on the doors. This is the least
adventurous option. If one of the players is a
wizard, he may decide to use the Strength spell to
smash down the doors. The players may then enter
the tower: proceed to Location 3.

The second option is to scale the walls by means
of its ivy covering. If the players ask about the
tower, you should tell them that it is covered with a
thick growth of ivy, which could be climbed by

29

someone nimble. If the players decide to climb the
ivy, go to Location 2.

Finally, ashrewd wizard player may decide to use
the Levitation spell to ascend the tower, or enter a
window. He will arrive too late to save the Baron,
and will have to cope with the Riddler’s devious exit
on his own, but he will be able to go down and open
the doors for the other characters. The GamesMas-
ter should describe the inside of the tower to the
wizard’s player alone. Try to keep the description
brief — the other players will want to explore these
locations more fully on their way up.

30

2

You grasp the thick strands of tvy and begin to climb. You
can hear the crowd below gasping at your bravery. But it is
a long way to the top of the tower . . .

The tower has four floors. For each floor scaled,
players must roll against their sk1LL. They must roll
two dice. If the result is lower than their sk1LL, then
they have successfully climbed the ivy to the level of
the next floor. If the total is higher, then they run out
of handholds and can proceed no further. If they roll
a double, then they may fall. They should Test for
Luck. If they are Unlucky, then they will fall. Roll
one die, and add 2 points for each floor above the
first that the adventurer attempted to climb. The
Unlucky character will lose this number of sTAM-
INA points. If they are Lucky, then they are merely
stuck — and must be ‘rescued’ by another character.

Each of the floors has a large window, through
which an adventurer may climb. If the adventurers
do not wish to risk climbing all the way to the top,
they should tell you which floor they want to enter.
Adventurers climbing the tower will enter locations
as follows:

First floor Location 4
Second floor Location 5
Top of tower Location 6

31

i, “io y

NY

“ijn?

oy TK: ; ‘i ¢

a — ¢

“ P on

eg
itp

wnt eZ
“Uy, ap

Ae

SRE
Mtge

ne a: \h)| Hy
ior oa | ; ote

3

Beyond the shattered remains of the mighty doors is a short
passage, leading to the ground-floor chamber of the tower.
The chamber is sparsely furnished, with a rough wooden
table and a few chairs. Hanging against the walls are
turious cooking utensils, and sides of meat. On the other
side of the room there is a large fireplace with a chimney-
breast. Around the walls of the room, a spiral staircase
ascends to a trapdoor in the high, arched ceiling.

Sitting on one of the chairs is a beautiful woman. She is
bound, with an expression of utmost horror on her face.
Perched an her head is a large glass jar. Swarming in the
jar are at least a dozen TARANTULAS! The slightest
movement will bring the jar crashing to the floor, releasing
tts deadly contents.

The adventurers must act quickly! The woman is
Lady Carolina, the young wife of Baron Bluestone.
She has managed to remain perfectly still despite
her terror, but now, with help at hand, she is
wavering. Suddenly her nerve breaks and the fain-
test tremor passes through her. It is enough! The jar
falls into herlap. . . and then drops on to the stone
floor. It is still intact! Then, as the adventurers
watch, it rolls lazily towards the table, strikes a leg,
and shatters!

There are fifteen Tarantulas in the jar. Treat the
seething mass as one creature:

TARANTULAS SKILL7
When the Tarantulas win an Attack Round, they

STAMINAI5 ATTACKS4

33

do no damage to sTaMINA. Instead, they inject
their venom. This will affect the victim after one
minute, causing black spider-hair to spring up on
his body. This growth itches terribly, and is very
distracting. The victim will lose 2 points of SKILL
until the hair is removed. Further bites have no
further effect, though the players do not know this.
A Potion of Strength, rubbed vigorously into the
body, will remove the hair and prevent it returning.
Alternatively, the victim may have to go to the
barber’s every moming for a complete body-shave!

Lady Carolina will be delirious with terror, crying
‘Traitor! I knew there was more to that little rat of a
soothsayer!’ Should the adventurers tell her of her
husband’s plight she will fall into a deep faint.

The trapdoor will lead you up to the first floor,
Location 4.

4

The first floor consists of impressive living-quarters,
adorned with rich tapestries and furniture. The floor is
littered with small scraps of paper. The room is gloomy,
since the curtains are drawn and the only two candles shed
a feeble light, On an opulent couch sits a man in the robes
of a wizard. He sits quite still and is apparently deep in
thought. He seems to be smiling broadly, and cradles a box
in his hands.

This room contains the corpse of Hammet the
Dash, a local wizard employed by Lady Carolina to
discover the source of her husband’s torment. Sad-
ly, he was successful. He discovered that the
Baron’s soothsayer, one Cona Numdrum, had been
slowly driving Lord Bluestone out of his mind by
bombarding him with riddle upon riddle. Having
entered the tower to warn the Baron, he was inter-
cepted by Numdrum. Revealing himself to be the
Riddling Reaver, agent of the Trickster Gods of Luck
and Chance, the traitorous soothsayer slit Ham-
met’s throat, and left his final riddle—in the box held
by the poor wizard — before hastening to the top of
the tower, to dispatch the Baron.

Hammet is quite dead, his throat slit from ear to
ear. The box he holds is a beautifully crafted piece of
work, made of interlocking sections of some very
hard wood. It will be pointless trying to open the
box without having solved the cryptic instructions
mscribed on its surface.

35

If you would see what I contain

And maybe learn some news of gain,
Solve this riddle, drop me in it,

Wait for the click, then pull me from tt.
I will be open, then you'll see

The reason for this riddle-me-ree:

‘It trembles at each breath of air

And yet can heaviest burdens bear,

It shows no mark when it is hit

And more — you're mostly made of it!’

The solution to this riddle is water and the box
must be immersed in water to be opened — see
Ending the Scene, pages 42-4.

36 37

}

ne
,

\ MK \ | i I WY iy The walls of this room seem to be made of silvered metal,
| j ; and have been polished until they are almost perfectly
reflective. The effect of being in a circular room with
mirrored walls is eerie, to say the least. The room has
larger windows than those of the floor below, and it soon
becomes obvious that this room serves as the tower's
beacon. The source of light is a large fiery being, held
securely in a cage in the centre of the room. The cage, half
of which ts barred and half walled, stands on a podium
which revolves slowly. The light from the creature dazzles
you and you cannot look at it directly. You are thankful
that it is safely imprisoned behind magically enchanted
bars. Stationed at regular intervals around the room are
half a dozen pails of water. As the last of you steps into the
room, the door of the cage slowly swings open. Someone
has been careless . . .

The creature is a DEVLIN, and the adventurers
must defeat it before they can leave this room.

DEVLIN SKILL10 STAMINAO (see below)

The Devlin is invulnerable to earthly weapons,
but can singe away 2 points of STAMINA ifit wins an
Attack Round. It is vulnerable only to dousing.
There are six pails of water around the room which
AAS may be used to try to repel the Devlin. A character
A | i iN. AY SS who throws a pail of water at the Devlin must Test
Wh OY RE for Luck. Success indicates that the Devlin has been
i) M\\\\\\Y . banished back to the Magical Plane of Fire. Failure
BE AA AVY AREAS indicates a miss. Players who do not think to use the

ie INS ls of s room
pails of water do not deserve to escape this room!

38 39

6

The roof of the tower is made of rough flint stones. A tall
flagpole in the centre flies the Baron’s emblem. As you
arrive you catch a fleeting glimpse of Baron Bluestone
teetering on the parapet of the tower, but then plummeting
to the rocks below. His opponent turns slowly round,
chuckling insanely to himself. When he sees you, he
scampers over to the flagpole. He grips it firmly — and
spins effortlessly up it, right to the top! His voluminous
grey robe billows in the breeze and hides his features. He
cackles at you.

‘Looks like we're a bit late, aren't we?’ he squeals. ‘Your
precious Baron's not much use now, is he? He had no
sense of humour, anyway!”

It may seem that the players have cornered the
evil-doer responsible for the Baron’s death. But the
Riddling Reaver (for it is he!) will make good his
escape, in a dramatic fashion. As the adventurers
advance on him, a gasp wafts up from the crowd far
below, and a mighty shadow falls on the tower's
summit. Hovering majestically some twenty metres
above is a vast marrow-shaped flying vessel. Be-
neath it hangs a small, luridly coloured gondola,
from which trails a rope. The Reaver grasps this,
and pauses to hurla parting shot to the adventurers.

‘I do so hate goodbyes. Maybe we'll meet again
.. . or maybe not.’ So saying he pats the top of the
flagpole, and spins up the rope to the gondola.
Within seconds the pole starts to writhe and twist,
transforming magically into a GIANT SNAKE,
with its tail still firmly planted into the roof. The

41

Snake will attack anyone who remains on the roof,
but cannot follow them down the trapdoor.

GIANT SNAKE SKILL7 STAMINA II

If the Snake scores two hits in succession, it will
swallow its prey whole, and he will quickly die.

Meanwhile, the Riddling Reaver will have glided
off into the wild blue yonder, leaving the inhabi-
tants of Kallamehr shocked and stunned.

Ending the Scene

However they fare in the tower, the adventurers
should be left with the mystery of the box to solve.
The solution to the riddle is water. If the players do
not seem to be able to guess it, the GamesMaster
should help them - maybe Lady Carolina could
guess it? To be opened, the box must be completely
immersed in water. If itis, a loud click will be heard,
and when the box is removed it will fall open —
though its contents will be perfectly dry. There is no
other way to open the box than this; it will resist ail
efforts to smash it open. Inside is a parchment on
which is written the following:

I always believe in giving people a chance. After all,
without Chance there is no Luck, and without either where
would I be? You can try to follow me, if you want to
avenge Bluestone’s death. And I won’t stop you. In fact,
I'll provide the transport. But to pay your fare, you'll have
to gather three trinkets and feed them to the God of the Sea
at Brion’s Bluff. What's more, the trinkets aren’t even

42

hidden. All you have to do is solve my riddles to find where
in Kallamehr they are. I hope you're lucky, Then again, I
hope you're unlucky. It's all the same to me.

What am I?
A white-winged fish that parts the waves,
I ply the sparkling waste.
I’m bound by ropes, and pulled by cloth,
Lest merchants lose their haste.

Where am I?
My first is tn south but not in north;
My second is in picture but not in play;
My third is in fourth and also in worth;
My fourth is in book and also in cook;
My fifth is in toe but now in sew;
My sixth is tn life but not in death;
And together I'm found where children abound.

What am I?
My belly is round
And bound with iron bonds;
What I carry always raises a cheer.
Murder have I not done;
Stolen not; cheated not;
Yet a peg is beaten into my head.

Where am I?
My coat is green and I can speak
Of several things, but mostly cheek.
In such a prison I am set
That has more loopholes than a net.

43

What am I?
I've neither top nor bottom,
Yet I hold bone and skin;
I hardly ever make a noise,
And yet my name's a din.

Where am I?
ll-matched ts my visage to my frame —
Horns are on my head, the rest a hideous man;
By fame well known through all the Allansian
lands;
From man and beast together is my name.

The Riddling Reaver

You should copy these riddles out and give them
to the players, so that they can refer to them in the
next Scene, ‘About Town’.

For your information, the answers to the riddles
are as follows:

Answer 1: The item is a ship, and it is to be found
at the school.

Answer 2: The item is a cask, and it is to be found
at the ‘Parrot in a Cage’ inn.

Answer 3: The item is the ring which is worn by
the Minotaur.

aa ‘i
a -_- _ _ ™.

Scene Two: About Town

Task: Find the three items — the ship, the cask and
the ring.

1

The death of Baron Bluestone has sent shock waves
throughout the city-port. Bewildered locals are grouped
here and there, recounting the tragic events that you were
a part of. If is up to you to see that justice is done!
Somewhere in the town lie the solutions to the Reaver’s
riddles, and to stand any chance of catching up with him,
it seems you must play his little game.

You are still in Rangor Tower. The Lady Carolina
agrees to supply you with any weaponry you may need in
your quest. She will send out to the armoury to supply you
with fine arms, crafted by the best weapon-smiths in
Kallamehr.

She also arranges for a guide for you. Hammet the
Dash, the unfortunate wizard who was killed by the
Riddling Reaver, had an apprentice. Dappa is only four-
teen, but has an intimate knowledge of the city. He will be
able to give you guidance and seemts very keen to help you
with the riddles.

You should give the players a free choice of
weapons to add to their characters’ Equipment
Lists.

Dappais a useful character for you to play. He will
enable you to give the players hints about which
directions to go in if they are having trouble. Dappa
is a short, mischievous individual with a quick

45

mind: he is very good at solving riddles! If the
players are getting stuck, you should use Dappa to
help them. But he will not just volunteer solutions.
He will want to demonstrate how smart he is by
being obscure. He will give clues to the solution,
and be very disdainful about any ‘stupid heroes’
who cannot solve ‘simple riddles’. Whenever you
want to give the adventurers a bit of help with a
nddie, consult Dappa’s Clue Table, which gives a
series of clues for each riddle. Give the clues to the
players in order. Hopefully your players will not
need too many clues. You should not over-use the
table: it does not do to let players get lazy!

Dappa’s Clue Table
Ship:
1. ‘Ican tell you're landlubbers.’
2. ‘Take a look in the harbour, what do you see?’
3. ‘Pish, pish, you should rearrange my words, dum-
mies!”

School:

1. ‘It’s easy if you've been there.’

2. ‘It rhymes with another word for idiot — which is what
you are!’

3. ‘What has a pupil, but isn’t an eye?’

Cask:

1. ‘If you're to accomplish your task, make me rhyme.’

2. ‘You'll often see this fellow rolling along streets and
into taverns.’

3. ‘I'd have thought you'd have got this one! You drink
enough of what's inside it!’

47

Parrot in a Cage:

1. ‘What talks, but can’t argue?’

2. ‘It’s a pet, numskulls!’

3. ‘Pieces of Eight, Pieces of Eight!’

Ring:

1. ‘It’s got no ends, and it’s often precious.’

2. ‘It’s only a littie thing, but it can bind two people
together.’

3. ‘T’s round, but you can put your finger through it.’

Minotaur:

1. ‘I think he's cheating — it’s not a place, it’s a person!’

. ‘I'm a-mazed you can’t get this one!’
‘The only way to solve riddles is to take the bull by the
horns and tackle them like a man.’

WG N

If it comes to a fight, though, Dappa will change
his tune and want protection: he’s no warrior! The
only spell he learned from Hammet was Invisibility;
he will try this in an emergency, but only on himself.

DAPPA SKILL4 STAMINA8 MaAGICc8

Dappa explains that the best place to begin inves-
tigating will be outside in the market-square. From
there, the players will be able to choose where they
go. Show them the map of the town so that they will
see the locations of most interest. Whichever of the
major locations they aim for, they must pass
through the residential area (Location 8).

Whenever the characters find one of the three
items, they will hear a manic cackle from the Rid-
dling Reaver’s parchment, and the riddles relating
to that item will mysteriously fade away. -

49

— ee rt—‘(iS.!

2

Even the death of Baron Bluestone does not prevent the
traders making their daily living, and the market-square is
busy. Exotic goods, fine cloths and succulent foodstuffs
adorn shops, stalls, carts and barrows. Business is brisk,
and the locals have little time to take notice of strangers.

As you pass through the throng, a cry goes up. The
crowds part as a lanky, ill-formed youth shoulders his way
through, wildly swinging a vicious-looking cudgel. Be-
tind him, sprawled in a quivering heap, you can see a rich
sterchant. There is no room to draw a sword, and even if
wou did you would risk hurting innocent bystanders.

The thief is making directly for the adventurers,
and they must make a snap decision to get out of his
way or to apprehend him. If they decide to try to
stop him, they may not use weapons, and will fight
at a penalty of —4 to SKILL.

LARGO THE SWIFT — sxkiLtt6 STAMINA 10

Should Largo be beaten, the merchant will recov-
er his purse and thank the adventurers profusely.
He will introduce himself as Ignatius Galapagos, a
trader who deals exclusively in exotic livestock for
discerning customers. He proudly boasts that he
supplied the monsters for Baron Sukumvit’s Trial of
Champions ~ the notorious Deathtrap Dungeon. He
moans about the ill fortune that has beset him ever
since he landed in Kallamehr: the scurvy rogues
who were handling his cargo have slid away, taking
with them his famed exhibit, a Minotaur with the
ability to snort poisonous gas through its nostrils!

51
3

The docks are dirty, dark, smelly and full of the shadiest
characters you have ever seen. Mysterious robed figures
witer on every corner and you have the distinct feeling that
uriseen eyes are watching your every move. As you approach
=ne large wooden storage barns which line the waterfront
#0u stop in your tracks. The barn door furthest from you
creaks open, and two shady figures emerge, manhandling
xiat appears to be a body. They drag it to the quayside
snd drop it into the sea. As they slide back towards the
sarn, you hear shouting from inside the huge building.

The building houses a hastily constructed arena.
A large pit has been dug, and its sides built up with
2arrels and loose timber. Every available inch of
seating around the rim is taken up by an assortment
of sailors and rogues, all clutching coins and yelling
Sets at one another. They are so absorbed in the
spectacle that they will take no notice of the adven-
curers if they enter the barn. At one side of the rim
stands the master of ceremonies, resplendent in an
enormous turban and garish silk pantaloons. As the
adventurers approach the pit, he will yell: ‘Who
dares challenge the mighty Minotaur of Mellizand?
is there anyone brave and hardy enough to last the
urn of the sand-glass? Come now, surely 100 Gold
Pieces make it worthwhile?’

In the pit fumes the strange beast, brought to
Kallamehr by Ignatius the merchant. It has been
25ducted by the crew of the ship which Ignatius
chartered, and they are using it for cruel sport.
Anyone who looks into the pit wiil see a rather

53
pathetic-looking Minotaur - certainly nothing like
the mighty beast of legend. In his nose he wears a
brass ring. This is the ring the players seek, and the
only practical way to getit is for one of the adventur-
ers to volunteer to fight the beast.

MINOTAUR SskKILL9 STAMINAQ ATTACKS2

The brass ring in his nose enables the Minotaur to
breathe a stinking cloud of poisonous gas every four
Attack Rounds. Characters caught in the cloud must
Test for Luck or lose 4 STAMINA points. Lucky char-
acters will lose only 1 point.

The sand-glass referred to by the master of cere-
monies times a period of seven Attack Rounds. If,
after this time, a character is still up and fighting the
Minotaur, then a rope will be let down, so that he
may climb out of the pit and claim the prize. He will
be given a bag of coins (the sneaky ringmaster has
put only 74 coins in it, however), and told that he
may not fight the Minotaur again.

If they are to recover the ring, another one of the
adventurers must fight and defeat the beast!

An adventurer who defeats the creature will have
just enough time to recover the ring from the Mino-
taur’s snout before three angry thugs jump down
into the pit and attack. The audience of rogues will
have melted away, and the beturbaned ringmaster
will be nowhere to be seen. The lone victor will need
help from the rest of the party! Each of the three
thugs has the same characteristics:

THUG SKILL6 STAMINA5

54

4

The Nautical Academy of Kallamehr is an ancient and
decrepit building. It is perched dangerously close to the
diff, and you wonder what prevents it from sliding into
the sea! Robed children career noisily in and out of the
large entrance and lean out of windows. At the top of the
Fuilding is an ancient weathervane tn the form of a ship.
Perched precariously on this is a grubby youngster who
attracts your attention by lobbing loose bits of tile at you.

Kallamehtr’s school for aspiring young sea-
captains is famous throughout this region. Equally
notorious is its reputation for harbouring some of
the most rebellious, mischievous brats in the area.

The weathervane in the shape of a ship is one of
the items which the heroes are seeking. If they are to
recover it, they must find some way of getting it
down, either by magic, or simply by climbing.
While the intricate architecture of the building will
make it easy to find handholds, the roof is badly
decayed, and the children will also be doing their
best to hamper any climbers.

In order for a character to reach the weathervane,
the player must first roll lower than his skILL to
reach the roof, and then again to scale the tiles. If
either of these fail, then the character cannot reach
his goal, and risks falling, thanks to the tiles thrown
by pupils. He must Test for Luck. If he is Unlucky,
then he will fall. Roll one die and subtract the result
from STAMINA. If a character falls while crossing
the roof, then he will have fallen through the tiles
and into the classroom beneath.

55

If a character successfully makes the climb, by the
time he reaches the top, the young rascal will have
made his escape by sliding down the tiles and
swinging into a window.

To get the character down, the player must again
make the SKILL rolls.

Smart players may try to bribe or coax the children

ki \e _ into helping them remove the ship. Ingenious play-

Dns ers should be able to come up with a number of

7 a> schemes, and it is up to you, the GamesMaster, to

Fa yar =a decide how successful these will be. Bear in mind
Wriste- ial i od 1 that these little villains are no softies!

a sets ie If the heroes decide to venture inside (or fall

i y through the ceiling!), then read the following

oft) J a. Ft: f description:

- Be Be rece eee |t jonas : The building houses one enormous classroom, filled

ae a aer Al Ba ‘ i with decaying desks and musty books and charts. It ts in

ae zine 8S al Pata ! uproar. Rival groups of pupils seem to be conducting mass

; =a Bt — : warfare against one another, and soon you are embroiled

m a battlefield of water-bombs, ink-pellets, peas and other
more unsavoury missiles. Slumped ona desk at the front of
the class is the portly shape of the teacher. He is caked in
dust, and is clutching a half-eaten apple. Tied to its stem is
a note: ‘To Sir, from yore beluvved pueples.’

All attempts to wake the teacher will fail — he has
been drugged by his ‘beluvved pueples’! He will
remain asleep no matter what.

If any adventurers are foolish enough to take a
bite from the apple, five minutes later they will doze
off, and will remain asleep for the rest of the Scene!

There is nothing else of interest in the room.

56 57

, \ Yi 1 \ ‘\ fA\ Mt 4 ~~. A fy 5
“hy Ps Gi,

SN Ss \\VY \\ ie hy —_ MY The ‘Parrot in a Cage’ inn is the most successful, and the

SS a Hist am = Yi, most disreputable, drinking-establishment in Kallamehr.

ee ee ae 1 — Dappa warns you of its infamous clientele, and he enters

| z xith reluctance. Inside the smoky den, a large crowd of
Neh ste we assorted ne’er-do-wells are massed around a table. A cocky

woung man is performing a trick with three shells and a
wa. Two piles of coins testify that this is no idle game. You
om A svon notice that nobody seems able to beat the man at his
RP gume, It looks simple, and he shuffles the shells very
EE ¢ swowly, but somehow he manages to deceive all comers.
=
Ni
(

7
ve
~~
*
>

- There is only one person in the inn who does not seem to be

Pre rery interested in the game. He is a short, rat-faced fellow

== ato sits by the bar, playing with his bead necklace, and

ot cccasionally muttering to himself. By his head hangs a

i a: slate with the prices of ale; it can be bought by the tankard

a! A ie. c7 by the cask. Behind the bar you can see casks, bottles and
A Ba rurrels untidily stacked.

¥ As you look around, your faithful guide Dappa urgent-

- pa 44 gestures for you fo follow him outside. There he explains

‘icin re \ faz *nat the rat-faced man was once an apprentice of his former

eee, Se NY | * master, Hammet the Dash. He was dismissed for petty

) , 4 shievery, which he accomplished using magic, Unless he is

yy) a —— Ne zery much mistaken, Rat-face has something to do with

~~ 2

me young conjuror’s amazing run of luck.

ee = = | Rat-face is, in fact, influencing the game by means
Pay i, UA of his magical necklace. He has arranged to split the
proceeds with his accomplice. No one has made any
connection between the two, so it is up to the
players to decide the fate of these con artists.

;
}

58 59

They may decide to ignore what is going on, and
press on in search of the cask (which can be purch-
ased at the bar for a paltry sum — the ‘Parrot in a
Cage’ is certainly not famous for the quality of its
ales!).

Alternatively, they may decide to expose the trick
first. They will no doubt come up with a plan for this
—or even a way of profiting from it! Itis up to you to
decide the results of these actions. However, the
most likely choices will be either publicly to de-
nounce the scoundrels, or to prevent Rat-face’s
magical interference and join in the game (where
they will find it easy to outwit the youth) and win
Gold Pieces to the value of three dice rolls.

Explaining the trick to the inn’s proprietor will
lead to the two con men being dragged off to court
for a dose of Kallamehr’s vicious justice. The inn-
keeper will thank the adventurers profusely, and
shower them with drinks. He will even give thema
whole cask of ale to show his gratitude!

If an adventurer takes Rat-face’s bead necklace, it
willadd 1 point to his Initial Luck score for as long as
itis worn (unless the character is a wizard, in which
case it will add 2 points).

6

The Flesh and Pen Emporium is a gaudily decorated
building. Its walls are covered with designs for lurid
tattoos. Judging by the nautical flavour of many of the
pictures, the Emporium is a favourite of sailors. Standing
Just outside the entrance to the building is a burly fellow.
He wears only a loincloth, and is covered from head to foot
m tattoos. He has attracted a small crowd of admiring
Street urchins and passers-by, to whom he is demonstrat-
mg the unique qualities of his designs. As he flexes his
right arm, the tattoo of a belly-dancer comes to life, while
on his left, a fearsome cobra rears and strikes. The interior
kouses even more of these fabulous works of art. Some of
them have been drawn on thick parchment, others adorn

- what looks like flayed skin! Busily at work on his latest

wiasterpiece ts a craggy old Dwarf who must be well over
Fwo hundred years old. His willing victim is whining
pitifully as the Dwarf’s needles prick his flesh. With a final
flourish, the tattoo is complete, and the shaken sailor
staggers over to a full-length mirror. The design is of a
Nazing sun beating down on a tropical island.

‘With this enchanted tattoo, my friend, you will never
catch cold again!’ croaks the Dwarf. The sailor grimaces.

‘I should think so too, after all I've had to endure!’ he
mutters, slipping on his shirt and departing.

None of the Reaver’s items are hidden in the
shop, but the player characters may be persuaded
by the Dwarf to invest in some bodily decoration. If
they are really keen they may even have one of his
fabled magical tattoos, which bestow strange pow-
ers on their wearers. These are not cheap, however.

61

puawatiiteu
i

| =f Nga - - |
| =
: > 4ie i
4 — ran i
a ie ry
. alll F
| § a ck oat
i ||
iy |
LN
an Sa | )
: " . af?
62

While a normal tattoo can be had for a Gold Piece or
two, magic ones cost 25 Gold Pieces. Adventurers
may choose from the following tattoos:

Rising Sun. As described above. This enables the
wearer to endure the lowest temperatures without
ul effect, and to withstand the fiercest winds and
downpours. Very useful for sailors.

Leaping Tiger. A striped cat springing out of jungle
foliage. Bestows the power of ferocity. If a character
calls upon this power by revealing the tattoo, then
he will add 1 point to his sK1Lv for as long as the
tattoo is visible. What is more, he will be able to fight
on for one round after his STAMINA falls to zero. He
will suffer the ill effects only after the battle.

Eagle. A majestic hunter of the skies. Gives the
power of sharp sight. The bearer can see great
distances, and will be able to notice things that most
people would overlook.

Cobra. A hooded serpent poised to strike. Enables
she character to mesmerize an enemy. If the wearer
exposes the tattoo, the victim must roll two dice. If
she total is less than or equal to his SKILL, the
opponent is unaffected. If the total is greater,
nowever, he will stand transfixed for one Attack
Round - and the tattooed character may inflict a
ound automatically. This ruse will work only once
m any one opponent.

A character may wear only one of the magic
tattoos. The tattoos can never be removed.

63
7

Made entirely of gleaming white marble, the Kallamehr
bath-house is clearly the place to be if you are rich and idle.
Located in a prosperous area of town, it boasts an enor-
mous pillared entrance — large enough to accommodate its
stouter patrons!

Inside, a simple entrance lobby ts attended by a snooty-
looking individual in a ceremonial bath-towel. He peers at
you disdainfully, and asks:

‘Am I to assume that you are not members? I hardly
think that our members would dress themselves in such a
slovenly fashion.’

Non-members are not ordinarily permitted to use
the baths, but the attendant will explain that he is
prepared to make an exception in their case, as long
as they pay the ‘nominal fee’ of 5 Gold Pieces.
Dappa points out that it is a rare privilege to enter
the baths, and the influential members of the Bath-
house Club may be able to help them with their
quest. If the players decide to explore the bath-
house, read the following:

Before entering, you must remove all your clothing and
weaponry, which is taken to the cloakrooms by a servant.
All that may be worn in the baths is a towel. You are
dtrected to the pool, which apparently lies at the end of a
maze of passages. You meet no one on the way, but after a
short walk find yourselves in front of a patr of brass doors.
inside is a small bathing-room. Steps lead down from the
door into the sparkling waters. Across the room are an
adentical pair of brass doors.

65

If any of the players have tattoos then they will be
clearly visible - and magical ones will take effect.

The particular pool to which the adventurers have
been directed is one used for the entertainment of
the bath-house’s patrons. When the adventurers
have all entered the pool, the brass doors will swing
shut, Looking up, they will see that they are being
watched from a balcony. Several bloated indi-
viduals are gazing down arrogantly. As they reach
the centre of the room, the onlookers will begin to
empty large pots into the pool. From the pots de-
scend cascades of waterand. . . ELECTRIC EELS!
Each of the six eels has the following attributes:

ELECTRIC EEL

Each Attack Round, one of the eels will let off its
electric discharge, doing 4 points of damage to the
adventurer it is attacking. Each eel can emit only
two bursts. You must choose which adventurers are
affected.

The brass doors through which the heroes en-
tered have been locked, leaving the other doors as
the only means of escape (the walls of the pool-room
are smooth marble, which cannot be scaled}. Unfor-
tunately, the doors lead straight out into an alley
round the back of the bath-house. The bath-house
fatties will be roaring with laughter at their joke. If
the adventurers somehow manage to defeat the six
eels, another six will be thrown down.

The heroes will find that their belongings have
been scattered about in front of the bath-house,
causing much humiliating laughter from passers-by!

SKILL 6 STAMINA 4

66

8

Kallamehr is a large sea-town, though quite unlike the
dark and treacherous ports of the north. You soon realize
shat although tt looks chaotic, it is actually very well
ordered. Its streets are clean, and its citizens seem quite
contented with their lots.

You need read this to the players only once,
although they will undoubtedly pass through the
residential areas between locations several times.
Each time they do, you should roil on the following
Residential Area Encounter Table:

Residential Area Encounter Table
Koll two dice and consult the table to discover what
the adventurers meet on their way through the
fown.

Dice Roll Encounter

2 A trained KRELL (a six-armed monkey
— SKILL 8, STAMINA 5) will atternpt to
pick the pockets of one of the
adventurers. If the adventurer has the
eagle tattoo, he will notice instantly.
Otherwise he must Test for Luck, and be
Lucky to avoid losing all his Gold.

3 One of the adventurets (decide by
rolling dice) will be falsely accused of
theft. Six guards will attempt to arrest
the character. If the adventurers remain
calm, and insist that the guards consult
the Lady Carolina, then all will be well,

67

3 * ‘
«hr ‘
Fay ‘ ‘ " .

oe
—_—
>

Bis

é

‘ 4
/ Ps
wy ye
5
———— -
1) te ee
m A Ex
‘ eo

,

68

3

4-5

>» |

and they will quickly be released. If they
attack the guards, however, then they
will have committed a crime, and will
have to fight any guards they may later
meet. Any guard is SKILL6, STAMINAS.
The adventurers meet a guard patrol. If
they are wanted for a crime (see
encounter above), the guards will
attempt to arrest them. Otherwise, they
will ask the adventurers if allis well,
and whether they have seen anything
amiss.

A street-trader attempts to sell the
adventurers some of his wares. They
may buy new clothes off him, if they
wish, but must carry them in their
backpack. A complete set of clothes
costs 1 Gold Piece.

No encounter.

The adventurers are mobbed by
urchins. Word has got about that they
are on a heroic quest for the Lady
Carolina, and these admiring young
ragamuffins want souvenirs. To get rid
of the urchins, each adventurer must
part with one item. Otherwise, the
party will be surrounded by screaming,
yelling street urchins for the rest of this
Scene!

The adventurers bump into Ignatius
Galapagos (see Location 2). If they
helped him then, he will hail them fora

69

i0—11

chat, and ask if they have seen his
Minotaur. If they have not, he will
shrug, and offer them 5 Gold Pieces
each by way of a reward for catching the
thief ~ it had slipped his mind at the
time! If they have seen the Minotaur, he
will be keen to know where it is. If told
itis dead, he will start to weep
uncontrollably, and hurry off, saying he
must go to the bath-house.

The adventurers run into a vicious
street gang, armed with knives, and
intent on murder and theft. They must
fight! Six members of the gang attack:
each is SKILL 7, STAMINA 4. If half of
their number are killed or knocked
unconscious, the rest will run away.
The adventurers are attacked by a
PRESS-GANG! Half a dozen heavies
(each SKILL 6, STAMINA 8) set upon
them with cudgels. If all the
adventurers are knocked unconscious,
when they awake they will find
themselves on board ship. They will
have little choice but to work for the
notorious Captain Sanbar. They have
failed in their quest for the three items.
However, the quest for the Riddling
Reaver can continue! Captain Sanbar’s
ship can be wrecked, and the
adventurers washed ashore on a jungle
coastline. You can then run Act Three.

70

Ending the Scene

Once the adventurers have assembled the three
items, they should hurry off to Brion’s Bluff. Read
the following to the players:

A mighty storm assails Brion’s Bluff as you approach the
suff’s edge. Waves crash against the rocks far below. It is
im ominous evening. As you hurl the ship, the cask and the
ring out to sea, the storm seems to become yet more
venzied. The clouds brew overhead. You can do nothing
rut stand and wait . . .

This is the end of Act One, ‘The Curse of Kal-
lamehr’. It leads directly on to Act Two, ‘Voyage of
Enigma’. If you are going to continue with the story,
vou must decide what happens to Dappa. He is very
keen to continue adventuring, even though he is
not as skilful as the adventurers. They must decide
whether they want him to come along with them. If
they refuse, he will return, sadly, to Kallamehr.

If he accompanies them, you must continue to
play him yourself. He may come in useful for giving
clues and hints, so use him to guide the players
smoothly through the story. If given a weapon, he
will fight to the best of his ability. But he has one
weakness — he is terrified of spiders and creepy-
crawlies! If he encounters any, he will start shriek-
mg with fear, and will lose any weapons he may be

<arrying.

71

ACT TWO
VOYAGE OF ENIGMA

Players’ Tale

rou are on the trail of a mysterious opponent, the Riddling
Seaver. This servant of the Trickster Gods of Luck and
“ance has murdered a great nobleman, and must pay the
=sequences. His motives for the crime were obscure, but
ts behaviour suggests it was part of some greater plan.
Your quest has brought you to a tall cliff on the coastline.
45 the stormclouds boil and rage overhead, and the furious
aind lashes you, you sense that this turmoil is but a
wagment of some greater battle on a Higher Plane. Are
ou destined to be a part of that battle?

You wait for minutes that seem like hours. Then,
acoking out to sea, you catch sight of a sail. But what kind
a ship sails in a storm like this? As it approaches, the
ands abate and the waves crash less violently against the
socks at the foot of the cliff.

You see the familiar shape of a merchant's galley gliding
tuurds the cliff. But this is no ordinary trading vessel
For you can see no crew on its deck. Its sails hang lifeless
Pom its masts, yet the ship glides smoothly over the
muces. As you look closer, you see that the galley really is
seling over the waves ~ it is floating above the water!

Suddenty, the ship stops dead. A landing-boat is winched
xen to the waves, and moves towards the shore. Again,
wou are certam that there is nobody aboard. It reaches a
marrow cove just along the cliff from you, and grinds on
am che sand, You get the feeling it is waiting . . . for you.

73

A slippery path leads down to the beach from the top of
the cliff, which you can easily descend with alittle care. As
soon as you all climb into the boat, it slides down into the
water, and smoothly heads in the direction of the galley.
What have you let yourselves in for?

GamesMaster’s Tale

The Act opens with the adventurers boarding the
Twice Shy, the Reaver’s sea-going vessel. Once they
have boarded it, the galley will sail off at great
speed, following the coastline across the Glimmer-
ing Sea. Its journey ends after it crosses the Gulf of
Shamuz and reaches the jungle coast. The adven-
ture takes place entirely on the ship, and therefore
consists of only one Scene. The only important Task
to be accomplished by the adventurers on the ship is
to stay alive until the journey is over! However,
there will be much to occupy them on the Twice Shy,
as the riddling villain has left plenty of traps and
menaces to test our intrepid heroes.

This scenario is designed to be run with a time-
limit, representing the duration of the sea voyage.
You should decide beforehand how long you want
the game to last. When the time-limit is up, allow
the adventurers to finish what they are doing {if
they are in the middle of a fight, for instance!) and
go straight to Ending the Act, pages 00-00.

The scenario begins with the landing-boat being
winched up on to the deck of the galley. You should
therefore start off at Location 1, the deck.

74

I

Sifost ships’ decks are very cluttered with ropes, barrels
end all kinds of nautical tackle, Not this one, though.
there is not so much as a coil of rope. The deck seems to be
made entirely from black pine, one of the strongest and
rarest woods in Allansia. In its middle, between the masts,
Ba hatchway, presumably leading to the hold. At each end
uf the lower deck there is a door. To the right of the forward
woor is a large brass plaque, on which is inscribed “Twice
Shy’.

Even on the upper decks, there are no ropes — nor even a
avicel for steering! What wind there is seems not to touch
the sails: they hang limp and lifeless.

The deck has no inhabitants, but that will not
necessarily prevent the adventurers from
encountering something!

The first time they are on the deck, after having
dimbed out of the landing-boat, there will be no-
thing here, and they will have to choose from the
doors at each end of the ship and the deck hatch to
proceed further. However, on subsequent visits (or
tf they refuse to leave, preferring the coward’s op-
Son of staying put), they will find that the deck is
not quite the haven of safety it might seem. There
are several possible encounters here. Whenever the
adventurers venture back on the deck, you should
zoll one die and consult the Deck Encounter Table to
see what they have met. Roll again if the encounter
has already happened —- each one can only occur
ence,

75

Sena

i

ial SS

te The =
oes

4 rela

Ma Soaks |

‘5

LED

te

Deck Encounter Table

Encounter
A huge PLESIOSAURUS (skILLg,
STAMINA 22) rears its ugly head out of
the sea and swims towards the Twice Shy,
Not surprisingly, it is quite hungry, If the
adventurers are able to satisfy it by
throwing it plenty of food, then it will go
away. Otherwise they will have to fight.
A mighty storm assails the ship.
Although the Twice Shy is in no danger of
capsizing, the adventurers may be less
secure. For out of the storm will swoop
1-6 STORM SPIRITS, fierce elemental
creatures, children of the raging skies:
each is SKILL 10, STAMINA 6. Though
wingless, the Storm Spirits fly at
terrifying speed. Before the battle
commences, you should ask each of the
adventurers which weapon they are +
going to use. Make a note of which
characters are using metal weapons.
Each Spirit can unleash up to two bolts of
lightning. These bolts hit on a roll of 1-4
on one die, and do 2 points of damage.
Also, anyone using a metal weapon who
wins an Attack Round against a Storm
Spirit will lose a point of STAMINA due to
the Spirit’s electric power.
Another ship approaches from directly
ahead. With horror, the adventurers will
see that it has black sails — itis a plague

77

ship . . . or worse! As it passes the Twice
Shy, several of its occupants leap across.
They are PLAGUE ZOMBIES, horrific
undead creatures who suffer from the
dread Plague of Undeath.

1-6 Plague Zombies (each SKILL 5,
STAMINA 7) will leap across as the ships
pass. A further 1-6 will try to leap, miss
and end up in the sea. Pity the poor
shark who tries to make a meal of one of
them! Anyone reduced to zero STAMINA
by a Plague Zombie will be given the
disease. After five minutes they will rise
up, reborn as a Plague Zombie!

Looking ahead of the Twice Shy, the
adventurers can see a slow old merchant
ship, sailing into their ship’s path. Try as
they may to divert the path of the Twice
Shy, there is nothing they can do. The
enchanted vessel charges straight into
the merchant ship, splintering it in two
as if it were balsa wood, and then
continuing straight on. The trader’s
cargo and crew are unceremoniously
dumped into the sea. The poor
shipwrecked sailors must fend for
themselves.

78

“a

The adventurers see what appears to be a
Sea Snake slide over the side of the ship.
You should ask them what they intend to
do, and get a quick reaction from them. If
they run for one of the deck’s exits, they
will avoid the encounter successfully.
Otherwise they will have to contend with
an enormous GIANT SQUID, which is
questing for food. It is SKILL 9, STAMINA
12, ATTACKS 2. The Squid will attempt to
entrap adventurers in its coils. If it wins
any two successive Attack Rounds, it will
squeeze its victim for an extra point of
STAMINA loss. If the adventurer wins the
next Attack Round, he has broken free,
and normal combat is resumed; if the
Squid continues to win, it will continue
to cause 3 points of damage. Although
the Squid can normally capsize large
vessels, it will find the Twice Shy too
difficult. If there is no food to be found
on the deck it wilt give up and sink back ©
beneath the waves.

79

6 A huge blue-skinned SEA GIANT,
some nine metres tall, looms over the
side of the ship and questions the
adventurers: ‘What puny land-dwellers are
you to taint my realm? If you would pass,
then tell me this: Which is more powerful, the
wind or the sea? And why?’ The

adventurers must reply that the sea is the

more powerful of the two, and give a
convincing reason (use your
judgement!), otherwise the Sea Giant
will attack: it is SKILL 10, STAMINA 17,
ATTACKS 3. If the correct answer is
given, the Giant will laugh, send a huge
wave crashing over the Twice Shy (this
will drench the adventurers), and dive
beneath the sea.

All the other locations in this scenario are below
the decks of the ship. These should be treated in the
Same way as rooms in a dungeon (as in Fighting
Fantasy). Remember, the adventurers will require
some kind of light to see further than one metre in
the darkness.

2

meath the lower deck of the boat is a large cargo hold.
Etging down the ladder, you find yourselves in the quiet
88 of this storage area. Peculiar smells assail your
sstrils, and the damp warmth of the hold feels strangely
ce. Hanging from the rafters is an unlit lantern.
Extered around the floor near by are barrels, One of these

5 fallen on its side and its contents — salted fish — have

spilled out. Towards the aft part of the hold you can dimly
mate out a large packing-case. Forward there seem to be
ikuif 2 dozen smaller cases, stacked together. You can hear
‘ie occasional soft skittering noise — probably rats.

There are four barrels near the ladder, including
the one which has fallen over. All four barrels
mmtain salted fish. However, one of them also
houses a rat, which will leap out as the barrel is
epened, biting the opener for 1 point of STAMINA
damage, before racing off into the shadows. The
barrels’ contents are of little use, but may be used to

‘@ppease the Plesiosaurus should the adventurers

‘encounter it on the deck. Alternatively, they may
‘eat the salted fish. As it is rather unpleasant to taste,
eating as much as can be stomached will restore
enly 2 STAMINA points at one time.

If they wish to, the adventurers may take the
Emtern. It is full of oil.

The six small packing-cases forward are quite
smremarkable to look at, though each one carries a
Srended stamp saying, ‘For the Attention of Cap-
sn Redlen Reiver’. Their lids are crudely nailed on,
aed can be prised loose with the edge of a sword,

81

first box contains a beautifully made, full-size,

s right arm. The next case contains a left arm,

others contain left and right legs, a torso and a

‘ead - all exquisitely crafted from flawless glass. If

ai the pieces are assembled, the head will glow with

an inner light as the MANIKIN is activated. This

Wezenious device is another of the Reaver's play-

Stings. It will respond to simple spoken commands,

; ‘nd carry them out to the best of its ability. How-
Af ever, there are disadvantages: it will obey com-
wands literally, since it has no intelligence; it will
aways follow the last command given; and it is not

ahoosy about whom it obeys — it will try to follow any

der it receives. If it is involved in a battle, and

Ps AY mets HS STAMINA is reduced to zero, then it will
} ANY er Shatter.
, fia : ANN AN ‘s MWANIKIN SKILL 8 STAMINA 3
» \ ; \ ay yt ; ; ..

alt 2 Se ee | Nh \ The adventurers will discover the Manikin’s func-
aN | b ; é SY Ss wh tion only if they say anything which it can take as a
——— Undid oN SS command. When not being commanded to do

1” Ly Aha RON ee SS. something, the artefact will remain perfectly still.

If the players approach the packing-case at the
ether end of the hold, you should read them the

x; ns BS Pll es ES tilowing:
‘3 ae ys “4 —— a] The packing-case is about two metres tall, and three
FS SS = suzires long. Written on its side is a riddle:
Vii ian AT SS Ge OSS ‘What has the head of a jungle king, the body of a
IM Wi ay WAG) z Os. k!-climber, the tail of a legless lizard and the breath of a

weiged hoarder? The answer's in the box!’
3

The door opens easily, and you find yourself looking into a
smallish, sparsely furnished cabin. A sturdy hammock has
Been lashed between two stout timbers, and an unlit
Bentern hangs from the ceiling. Around tt dangle various
iypes of fish. They are all neatly stuffed, and tied to the
aufters with pieces of string. This cabin’s former occupant
alearly felt more at home under water! In the centre of the
poom is a large box, at least a metre high, which is clamped
to the floor by iron bands. There ts a stool in front of tt, and
@ has two small holes bored into its side —- apparently

eyeholes.

The stuffed fish are just what they seem. The
lantern may be taken by the adventurers; it is full of
oil. The box is a Casket of Visions, designed by the
Riddling Reaver for his guests as a form of amuse-
ment during the tedium of the voyage. The first
adventurer to look through the eyeholes will see a
curious sight. You should take the player aside and
secretly read the following:

Sure enough, in the box is a CHIMERA, whi
will spring out and attack ifthe boxis opened.

CHIMERA  SKiLi12 STAMINA20 ATTACKS3

The Chimera will bite with its lion’s head,
with its goat's hoofs, and constrict with its serpent!
tail. It can also (every three Attack Rounds) breath
a gout of flame at one opponent, This will hit on
roll of 1-4, doing 2 STAMINA points of damage.
Chimera cannot Bet out of the hold on its own, as
cannot fly and is too heavy for the ladder. If
adventurers have trouble defeating it, they may fing
it advisable to escape up the ladder to the ‘safety’ «
the deck.

Inside the box there is a golden glow. When your eyes have
adjusted to the light, you see that the box is filled with
gold, gems, jewellery ~ more than you have ever seen in all
pour years of adventuring!

In order to get into the box, the adventurers will
have to smash apart the iron bars. This will take
some time — at least ten minutes. During this time it
is likely that one or more of the other players will
want to look at the contents themselves. You should
ask the players whether they are looking into the

84 85

box. Each one who does should be taken aside and
told a different tale of its contents, so that each
adventurer will have very different views on
whether or not to open it! Below are the alternative
visions to be seen within the box. Each player's
vision will remain the same, no matter how many
times they come back to the eyeholes to look.

Vision 2

At first you can see nothing in the box but darkness. Then
ichul runs down your spine as two eyes open and stare
hack at you. They burn with a seething malevolence, a chill
are that must surely come straight from Hell.

Vision 3

The inside of the box seems to be moving. When you look
cioser, you see that there are thousands of insects —
termites, spiders and other loathsome creepy-crawlies.
rrom this writhing mass a skull protrudes. It has been
mcked clean.

Vision 4

Your eyes adjust to the darkness, and you make out the
cramped figure of a beautiful maiden, bound from head to
vot. She is gagged, but her eyes clearly convey her terror.
You do not know how long she has been imprisoned here, —
hut it looks as if she cannot last much longer.

Vision 5 ;
Sitting inside the box is another box, finely crafted of

aterlocking pieces. It has some writing carved on its
surface, but you cannot quite make out what it says.

Be

If the players finally decide to open the box and
succeed in smashing the iron bands, the lid will fly
off and a loud squeal will be heard. A creature
(actually a huge jack-in-the-box!) will shoot up from
the box and tower menacingly above the adventur-
ers, swaying to and fro, You should describe this to
the players, and ask them what they are going to do.
Should they attack it, then they will hack it to pieces
very quickly. If they leave it alone, however, it will
give them a hint: ‘Gluttony has proved the downfall of
many a brave adventurer.’ After saying this, it becomes
a lifeless dummy. There is nothing else in the box.

88

4

Set into the wall is a portal with no door. All you can see ts
4 sheet of darkness within the door-frame. Drawn around
the frame are hundreds of little stick figures, engaged in
curious activities, such as running, jumping and wrap-
ping their legs dround their heads.

The entrance to this cabin is a Portal of Darkness.
Adventurers may pass through it easily enough.
However, one effect of the portal is that any living
thing passing through it will be shrunk down to the
size of a large beetle. Coming back out through the
portal reverses the process. Moreover, the trans-
formation occurs without the victim noticing any-
thing amiss. If the adventurers enter the cabin, then
read the following:

Impossible as if may seem, you find yourselves in a vast
subterranean chamber. Its ceiling is so far above your
neads that it is hardly visible. Ahead of you lies dense
murple shrubland, Beyond that, you can make out four
mountainous pillars rising high into the sky.

What the players are actually seeing is a beetle’s-
eve view of a very ordinary cabin. Like most of the
cabins it has a hammock and a small desk. The
purple shrubland is actually a plush carpet, while
the four pillars are the legs of the desk. If the players
advance through the undergrowth, they will have
to hack their way through to proceed. After travel-
ing through the undergrowth fora few minutes, the
adventurers will see a terrifying form coming to-
wards them — a huge grey beast, larger than an

89

ta 1c A
key :

a
eae ft
Sas Sa
Game A
too <]
——-~ ~
4

Ww
=
—
a .
= *

TT
Lh

Sag, 8
iW

AUUUL Aa aAaNA SN

>)
<
tt

i}

SAN ea
Z IK
ead he

=
!

~

8

yy
thi

Y
ac
ELAR

i
it

elephant, with four legs and vicious teeth. It is a
MOUSE, and the adventurers must fight it!

MOUSE SKILL10 STAMINA16 ATTACKS2

If they kill the Mouse, the adventurers may con-
anue their exploration. The only item which may be
of interest to them will be an enormous golden
mgot. The adventurers should Test for Luck. If any of
them are Lucky, they will spot this glimmering
among the undergrowth (an adventurer with the
magical eagle tattoo from Act One will automatically
spot it). Since it is a metre long, it will take all their
strength to heave it out of the room. Of course, once
through the portal the adventurers will grow, but
the ingot will remain the same size. It is a sliver of
gold worth roughly 2 Gold Pieces! So much for easy
riches!

o1

*
art ea? «*
|

ad

nly | ae. >
, xs
< ‘ .
o » - ~ ‘

—

'
" s
‘ > =

:
.
Bi
*
*
i 4

92

5

The door to this cabin opens easily, and you find
wurselves in a small dining-hall. A long table runs along
se middle of the chamber. It is set for dinner, and a
routh-watering meal is laid out along it. There are cuts of
mizat, fine breads, soups and dips, and a magnificent
centrepiece — a huge silver platter with domed lid. What
succulent dish lies inside?

The food on the table is perfectly edible, and is the
equivalent of three sets of Provisions. Inside the
central platter, however, is something far less tasty.

Swarming within are several hundred FLESH
GRUBS. These hungry flesh-eating maggots will
make straight for the person who lifted the lid.
Although blind, they have an unerring sense of
smell, and will be able to wriggle their way towards
any adventurer. The unfortunate who lifted the lid
will be covered by 2-12 Flesh Grubs immediately,
and more will spill towards him unless he runs for
it. Each Flesh Grub will automatically inflict 1 point
of STAMINA damage as it nibbles away at the victim.
They can be pulled off and crushed quite easily. A
further 2-12 Flesh Grubs will latch on to their original
victim and anyone else, if they are foolish enough to
remain near the table.

While the adventurers were preoccupied with the
table and its contents, an IMITATOR slid down
trom its perch above the door they came through,
and reformed itself in the shape of the door. If the
adventurers take the sensible option and flee from

93

the deadly Flesh Grubs, they will stumble into the
disguised Imitator.

IMITATOR

When the victims touch the Imitator, they will
stick fast, held by a glue-like substance secreted by
the creature. At the same time, it will strike with a
large, fist-shaped protuberance. The trapped prey
can fight back, but with skILL reduced by 2. Once
the ‘fist’ is cut off (Imitator’s sTAMINA reduced to
zero), the creature is defenceless. It can be finished
off rapidly and the glue will lose its potency.
However, if the fight takes more than four Attack
Rounds, Flesh Grubs will start arriving at a rate of
2-12 per Attack Round!

SKILLY STAMINA 8

94

6

The door opens into a cabin. There is a small, but comfort-
able-looking bunk against the wall, and a writing-desk
with a stool across the room from the bunk. The floor is
carpeted and the walls are painted bright blue. The cabin
looks as if someone has been here recently; there are clothes
strewn about the place, and papers litter the desk.

This cabin formerly belonged to Bhorriz, a wise
seer whom the Reaver befriended. They frequently
used to dispute the nature of the world and rumin-
ate upon metaphysics together. Then Bhorriz came
up with the perfect solution to the world’s problems
—a system of government which would ensure that
peace and goodness would spread throughout the
lands of Allansia, and perhaps beyond. The Reaver
realized that this would upset the balance between
Good and Evil, so he threw the seer overboard. He
never got round to tidying up the cabin.

The GHOST of the unfortunate seer still inhabits
the cabin. One minute after the adventurers enter
the cabin, a spectral form will materialize and begin
to moan at them. If the players decide to attack it,
they will find that their weapons pass straight
through it. After moaning for a minute or so, the
Ghost will start to whisper insistently:

‘You must not be fooled by him, no, no, no. . .”

If the adventurers try questioning Bhorriz, he will
explain further:

‘You are all pawns in a cosmic game. Luck and Chance
determine the outcome, and they are jealous of their

95

—

W

S

a —E——=

—
mmm

—

—

We

SONA UN SU TITLE PPE

power. You must not play the game, no, no, no... The

a@muntervatling equipoise is not yet come to fruition . . .”

He will carry on in this vein for as long as the
players are prepared to listen to him. Most of what
the poor, demented old spirit says is complete rub-
bash. If asked how he came to die, he will briefly
explain the circumstances of his death, and then
return to his philosophical ramblings. The only
other piece of useful information the adventurers
will be able to extract from the Ghost is the solution
to the riddle on the door of the Riddle Room. If they
ask him how to get into the room he will tell them:

‘Just say, “The answer is a riddle’’, and the door will
gen.’

The papers on the desk are Bhorriz’s notes. Their
contents are on the same lines as his whispered
cmments — mostly unintelligible intellectual jot-
angs. Hidden among them is a Scroll of Fortune.
Reading this has the same effect as drinking a Potion
of Fortune. As the letters disappear from the page
when read, the Scroll can be used only once.

In the pockets of Bhorriz’s clothes are 10 Gold
Fieces.

F

rerrerrrrerrrirrseersvareeere (rt
- - —

*w«
pel rye

See ee ee eee
LOSE LEYS SG ities GO:
COLLIE LTE ERE OE, Fad

Pe oe Oe SH

#i4>

7

This cabin is well furnished, though covered with a thick
layer of dust. Judging by the thick silk tapestry and
opulent armchairs, it belonged to the ship's master. There
& a dresser with a mirror on the far side of the room, near
the bunk, which is enclosed by velvet curtains. A drawer of
the dresser is slightly open. On the walls hang a selection
wf cutlasses, a cat-o'-nine-tails, and various torture imple-
ments. To your right there is a rough wooden perch.

As the adventurers enter the cabin, the drawer of
the dresser will loudly slam shut. If they examine
the mirror, they will find that someone has written
‘Lay my bones to rest!’ in the dust. While they are
looking in the mirror, they will see the bed-curtain
open in the reflection. From the bed will climb a
crusty old sea-captain. His right leg is a wooden
stump and on his shoulder sits a mangy green
parrot. If the adventurers turn to face him, they will
discover that there is no one there, and the bed-
curtain is undisturbed!

If they open the bed-curtain, they will find a
skeleton — or rather two skeletons, one of a man
(whose right leg is missing below the knee), and the
other of a bird, which lies by the first skeleton’s
shoulder.

If the players attempt to open the drawer of the
dresser, the cutlasses, cat-o’-nine-tails and torture
instruments will fly off the walls towards the adven-
turers. Each must successfully Test for Luck to avoid
losing 1 point of sramina. The weapons are
thrown by a POLTERGEIST. This is the spirit of

99

the former pirate captain of the Twice Shy, who was
foully slain by the Riddling Reaver: hot lead was
poured down his throat. He is furious at being kept
so long in limbo, and desperately wishes to be
buried at sea, so that he may at last attain rest. After
throwing things at the adventurers, he will pick up
a cutlass (since he is invisible, they will be able to see
only the weapon, waving in the air) and attack.

POLTERGEIST skKILL9 STAMINAO (see below)

The Poltergeist cannot be harmed by mortal
weapons, and will fight until either the adventurers
are driven out of the room, or his bones are taken
from the bed and thrown over the side of the ship.

During the battle, one or more of the adventurers
may have the gumption to try to move the bones. If
they do so, a ghostly parrot’s voice will squawk,
‘That's the way to do it!’, and the Poltergeist’s
cutlass will stop in mid-air.

If someone manages to carry the bones out of the
room, on to the deck of the ship, and to hurl them
into the sea, then the apparition of the sea-captain
will appear fleetingly and mumble his thanks. You
need not roll on the Deck Encounter Table while the
adventurers are performing this service

Under the skeleton’s pillow is an eye-patch. This
has been enchanted so that the eye it covers can
see perfectly in the dark. In normal light, it can
mysteriously be seen through, but has no special
abilities.

In the drawer of the dresser are some doubloons,
worth 20 Gold Pieces.

100

8

This is quite a large cabin, and contains assorted maps,
curts, sextants and other navigational paraphernalia.
The cabin is dominated by a huge table, on which lies a map
of the whole of southern Allansia, skilfully modelled in
sree dimensions. Looking closer, however, you can see
Sut where the Plain of Bones should be, there is a ball of
mur, about the size of a cabbage, snoring contentedly. You
can also make out a small model of the Twice Shy, ina
arger scale than that of the map, which seems to float just
show the map, neur the coast,

The players have found the Reaver’s map-room.
The miniature ship follows the exact course that has
been plotted for it beforehand. It in turn steers the
Twice Shy. If the miniature ship is tampered with in
any way, the real ship will be affected. For instance,
# an adventurer were to prod the model, then the
Ship would lurch violently, and the party would be
thrown across the cabin, losing several points of
STAMINA in the process. The GamesMaster should
be able to guess what would happen if someone
were to treat iteven more roughly! But hopefully the
adventure will not end altogether at this early stage.

The ball of fur which is currently sleeping on the
Plain of Bones is a JIB-J1B, and belongs to the
GENIE which controls the map and ship. If the
adventurers wish to examine the room's contents
further, then they must tiptoe very quietly (see
Fighting Fantasy, page 61) to avoid waking the Jib-
im. If they are successful, then they will be able to
help themselves to various valuable instruments

101

re Pe wie ere TT ET A 9 9 amo Nem
CEEMAAEIL AOL SF ELA SEM wrens LET LATS
§ CET ee AO See

‘ . tee

De holed
"Ne eh
: *
41 i hen
gt Spiitoces dy
| pent et Oe
+ CALI

,

Wop aU

Heeeres

eer,
ifxeess

= 2

102

and charts (roll two dice and multiply the result by
ten to find their value when sold to a merchant).

If the Jib-Jib is woken or attacked, then read the
following description:

The dormant bundle of fur suddenly springs to life, and
# fearsome scream rents the air. You look around in terror,
expecting to see some vicious monster behind you. There is
aothing, and you realize that the banshee yell comes from
the timid-looking ball of fur. This terrified creature is now
running around the map on its two short, stumpy legs,
coming dangerously close to the model of the Twice Shy.

The adventurers must decide whether to leave
the room, hoping the Jib-Jib will calm down in their
absence, or to try to silence it themselves. If they
leave, the caterwauling will continue fora minute or
so, and then begin to die away, as the little creature
settles down to sleep again. Otherwise, the players
must choose between killing or capturing the beast.

fIBJIB SKILL1 STAMINA 2

Any player who says he is trying to capture the
bib-Jib should Test for Luck. If he is Lucky, then he
kas caught hold of it. Several players may say they
ate trying to capture it, but you should make sure
¥ou know which adventurer finally manages to grab
8. Alternatively, if the players opt for combat, make
Sure you know who dealt the killing blow.

Once the Jib-Jib has been caught or killed, a
mighty Genie will materialize in a puff of purple
smoke. He is extremely annoyed at the treatment of
hss beloved pet — and if it has been killed he will be

103

bursting with fury. In booming tones, he wil
address the adventurer who caught or killed his pet

‘A thousand curses upon you, treacherous infidel! For”

this crime against my companion, you shall henceforth
assume a guise more suited to your mischievous nature!

With this, he unleashes a bolt of flame, which
strikes the guilty party squarely between the eyes.
There is a flash, and the next instant the adventurer
has become a monkey! The Genie laughs and
vanishes in a cloud of noxious green gas.

The poor adventurer will still have all his senses
and intellect, but they are encased in the body ofa
small ape:

PLAYER CHARACTER
MONKEY

SKILL 6

The monkey cannot speak, though it may well
gibber excitedly and gesture its intent.

If the adventurer had merely captured the Jib-Jib,
the curse will wear off after half an hour (keep track
of the time, and tell the player he is back to normal
when the time is up). If the Jib-Jib was killed,
however, the curse will be permanent, unless the
adventurer can find a way of curing it (a powerful
wizard, or even another Genie).

104

STAMINA 2)

9

This cabin seems to be a gallery. Pictures on the walls
meostly depict heroic battles and scenes of daring. On the
fr wall hangs a larger painting, covered by a black cloth.
The floor is carpeted, and there is no other furniture.

There are paintings for each adventurer.
Although different, each depicts a scene in which
some hero of legend is in mortal danger. Roll a die
@nce for each adventurer, ignoring 6 and any num-
bers already rolled. Note down which painting cor-
sesponds to each adventurer: this will be useful later
on. If the adventurers enter the cabin, you should
ead out the detailed description of each painting to
the player to whom you have assigned each picture.

Picture 1

A smoking battlefield is littered with corpses. Two ex-
hetusted figures remain standing, locked in deadly combat;
a vile black-plated Demon is about to slice his wicked axe
Merough the shattered remnants of a noble warrior’s shield.

Picture 2

A striking aerial view of the top of a crumbling tower,
where a fair damsel is being torn from the grasp of her
grievously wounded lover by a fell beast of the skies.

Picture 3

A kind-faced lord sits at his table, sharing a meal with his
arons. He is just about to drink from a chalice of wine. In
the background, a weasel-featured manservant peers from
we alcove, clutching a small phial of black liquid.

105

Wh],
WT ETF

WT, 777, hhh

Aa +. 7 a4 7
SS WY i i] Ut / yy, JA tf 4
\ ‘ Wl \}\ if My Hf) Ht} ify f ”
ss S \ My A yeas s PS
"AYO A \\\ iM W)) ff yl } Uff
a
}
f
it
: a
| —
/.
“Ta
D : ™~“
f WALL Ae
YN, fi HH it} Wh \\\ \
Sy iff iy) ih i | si ;
ff j Hi i \
WH | VALS
/ / heey | Lyi} \' Ai
‘ Yy i Hi} Hi i | \ \\ \ | \\
UN Wi if i | ! VAN \\\ \\\ '
i) Thi iit Hi] 1] ‘in| \" th | A\\\ \
OPH HTL AY AVA VA
aif f , / iy it it \ .
Vi My | TT | | i \\\\\ i \
StH] HH i Hitt Hil Wnt} W\\\\ WAYS
j If} F fi i Hit (| | 1) | iV" n\\\\ \' \ WAN
/f /} Seat Phin if} | 1] AY | VAMWAYAN NY
/ fi} vi i Hi | ' t \ \ WI \\ \N :
if fi } \ \ VAN
wel // eLLit ij Li fl } | ean HUNAN raX\

Picture 4

A callow, inquisitive youth is reading from a magical
zrimoire. Behind him, a shadowy form seems to be mater-
talizing from a swirling cloud of vapour. Its form looms
above him; he seems oblivious to its presence.

Picture 5

A handsome, but unkempt adventurer is groping through
z grille in a dungeon floor, searching for a muddy sword
which has fallen through. Under the grille lurks a Gon-
chong — the most feared parasite known to man!

The picture at the far end of the gallery is a portrait
of the Riddling Reaver (any characters who played
Act One will recognize him). If uncovered, it will
come to life, and speak to the adventurers:

‘Don't try to move, my curious art-lovers! I see you've
-aken an interest in my collection. Perhaps you'd like to
sxamine them A LITTLE CLOSER!’

Then wild laughter fills the room and there is an
mtense burst of blinding white light. When the
adventurers recover they will each find themselves
in one of the scenes depicted in the paintings! They
will appear in the painting you had previously
noted down for them. You should then take each
player aside and ask them what they are going to
do. In order to escape from the painting, they must
change fate, as explained for each picture below. If
they do not, then they will be frozen in the painting!

Picture 1: The adventurer must prevent the blow
from landing.

107

Picture 2: The beast must be attacked so that &

releases the maiden.

Picture 3: The adventurer must leap on to the table
and knock the poisoned wine from the king’s hand.
Picture 4: The book must be slammed shut to disped
the summoning of the Demon.

Picture 5: The adventurer must pull the explorer’s
hand from the grille.

In order to succeed at any of these, the adventurer
must roll under his SKILL on two dice.

Any players who are successful will have saved
the fate of the picture’s hero, and will find them
selves back in the gallery. They will have gained 3

points of Luck. Any adventurer who failed will be’
clearly visible in their picture, which will also show
the ruin of its hero. The only way they can be freed s

if the portrait of the Reaver is turned so that it faces
the wall. The portrait (now inanimate) can easily be
damaged, but this will not help an adventurer res-
cue his stranded comrades.

10

mito the wall is what seems to bea portal, but there is no
w — just blackness. Above the portal is written: ‘Only
se who lie may enter safely.’

This is a Portal of Darkness. It can be passed
ough with perfect ease. Any adventurer ex-
eimentally poking something through will find
et it passes through the darkness with no resist-
. However, one metre beyond the door is a
ulum axe, swinging from the ceiling. Anything
ich is poked over a metre through the Portal will
hit by the axe. The lowest point of the axe’s swing
one metre off the ground, so the only way to get
sugh safely is to lie on the ground (hence the
ice), and crawl through. Anyone stepping
ough the Portal without taking these precautions
be hit by the axe, losing 1-6 points of STAMINA.
the adventurers are inside the room; read out
following:

You are in a small cabin, with a hammock slung from
rafters, and a desk set against the wall. Spread around
room is a menagerie of stuffed animals — cats, exotic
Ss, snakes and deep sea fish. They litter the floor and

fill the hammock. They are very lifelike: it is as if they
been frozen in time! Sitting on the desk among a
section of stuffed mice are two labelled bottles. On one

m can read ‘Balm for Curing’, while on the other ts

stten “Balm for Sealing’,

This room is used for taxidermy — the practice of
serving dead animals. It is one of the Riddling

109

ee ee
— ————£—_— a |
SSE , = EI bh
>, ‘
a or Gal >
* / 4 ! e i} u
i Tide E> j aN Al oy,
oe v i vA : ¥ i
7 | "
: +
“ : y
ene “ene , -~
St Py *~ i —
2 4 oo >
N = eRe
me - |
re - mat 1 ha a
‘ : “ =< * Ja
ree, ar ‘ a % Z = " Ph . me
a > ~ 4. —— Af oe Y en” om
— . ~ iN ee : sf
; . 7" —— Dn. j
A a Re
x a f)
\ ‘ —— : "fi
is - { :
~ ; “ m1
110

‘er's hobbies, and he has’ perfected it to a fine
His method involves the use of two potions —
balms that are to be found on the desk. The
for Sealing’ will cause any wounds or ble-
es to vanish, and if taken by an adventurer will
as a healing potion, restoring STAMINA to its
level (there are two doses in the bottle). The
for Curing’ (of which there are three doses in
bottle) is used to preserve a creature. If taken by
adventurer it will toughen his skin. This will
ase Initial STAMINA by 3 points, but decrease
! SKILL by 2 points, because the skin becomes
xible. These effects can be cancelled only by a
on of Strength or a Potion of Fortune (and these
have no effect on the adventurer other than
ving the effects of the curing balm).

ati
11

walls of this cabin are lined with double bunk beds, It
Searly the living-quarters for the ship's crew. And sure
mught, sitting at the table in the middle of the room are
m= grubby sailors, concentrating on a game of cards, Piles
gold on the table in front of them show that the game is
high stakes. They do not seem to have noticed you.

The crew of the Twice Shy have an easy life. Since
_ e ship steers itself and requires no hands on deck,
stv crew can spend their days gambling endlessly.
: == so it seems. If the adventurers look very closely
the sailors, they will notice glazed eyes, and a
t stiffness of the limbs. The crew have been
utfed! The Reaver has set up this happy little scene
his amusement. The Stuffed Sailors will carry on
ving their game, without baiting a glass eye at
adventurers, unless their gold is touched. This
pts their pattern, and sends them into a
rk rage, proving that it is sometimes better to
sleeping dogs lie — especially stuffed ones! They
we draw their barbed sailor’s knives and attack.
h of the six sailors has the following attributes:

~ VFFED SAILOR SKILL6 STAMINA 10

ff the adventurers survive the battle, they may
the gold; there are 80 Gold Pieces on the table.
= | There is little else of interest in the cabin, though
Es yt me ee | venturers may be tempted by a Jarge jug of grog
Te eee || the table. One swig of this potent brew will
1 |

Hy i { i My / | | | | \ | ) \ 1 \ \\ ' WwW \ \\\ \ =i ore 2 points of STA MINA. However, further
PASS EPET BEGET I | LAY | Wait \\\ \ 1
HH I i, i HULL il ill VEU DAA VANALA AN hee ps will lower SKILL by 1 for the rest of the Act.

112 113

(i
n

oe 4

oR)

<

12

door to this cabin is locked, though there is no keyhole.
ve tt, a sign reads “The Riddle Room’. On the door is
ten:

When I appear I seem mysterious,

But when explained, I'm nothing serious.
When I’m unknown to you, I'm something
But when I’m known to you, I’m nothing.
In Master’s name you'll me espy,

So tell me, then, please: What am I?

Listen carefully to what the players say once
y ve heard this. The answer to the riddle is ‘a
e’, and this is the key to the cabin. So if any of
players mention the word ‘riddle’, the door will
ing open. The players may not even know how
y opened the door!
You should then read them the following descrip-

What little furniture you can see in the cabin is of the
t quality. However, it is buried under huge piles of
ls. Scrolls cover the sumptuous bed at the far end, the

icately carved writing-desk and much of the thick
t. Only a large black wardrobe is not covered with
,and that is because it reaches right up to the ceiling.

The room is the Riddier’s private sanctum. The
lls, naturally, are covered with riddles. The
yers may like to pick a few and havea go at them,
they fancy their riddle-solving abilities. But these
no ordinary scrolls: the riddle must be solved

115

within one minute (you should time this from &
moment you give them the riddle to solve), o
wise the scroll will explode. Anyone inthe room
be caught in the explosion, and must Test for Luck
they are Lucky, they will lose only 1 point of sta
INA. However, if they are Uniucky they will lose
points of STAMINA.

If a riddle is solved correctly, then the words
the riddle will fade from the page, to be replaced b=
magical lettering. This will be titled, making clear
magical powers. You should roll a die: on 1-2 the
scroll will be a Scroll of Skill; on 3-4 a Scroll «
Strength; and on 5-6 a Scroll of Fortune. Whe
read, these have exactly the same effects as te
potions of the same name, but are good for only or
use, since the magical lettering fades as it is read.

When the players pick up a scroll to solve a riddi
you should decide which riddle is on it by rolling a
the Riddle Tables (see below). These give a selectix
of riddles with their answers. When you have four
which riddle the players must solve, you sho
read it to them slowly, so that they can copy
down. The players may make as many guesses
the solution to the riddle as they can in one minut

sting that he can wash and press them in less
se than it takes to read a riddle. Ifany adventurers
foolish enough to give the Genie their clothes,
will disappear back into the wardrobe with a
ach, and the door will slam shut. If the adventur-
s attempt to persuade the Genie to grant them a
meh, he will explain that he cannot disobey his
ter, as he is a servant of the Trickster Gods of
cx and Chance. The best he can dois to cancel any
misfortune that has happened to the adventur-
since they got on the ship. If an adventurer has
turned into an ape by the Genie of the map-
. then he can be cured. Or if a character has
sen killed in battle, the Genie will be able to bring
back to life. You should use your judgement in
Seciding what the Genie can and cannot do; you
la not let the players get away with anything
outrageous. Once he has granted this wish, or
eshed talking to the players, he will stream back
= the wardrobe in a cloud of gas.

Ef the Genie is disturbed a second time, he will be
ery and irritable. Questions and requests from
© adventurers will make him even worse, and he
© start turning adventurers into beasts, putting
it heads on the wrong way, etc., until the adven-
wers get the hint that he wants to be left alone. You
uld use your imagination in thinking up likely
wses that the Genie might bestow upon persistent
enturers.

If the adventurers open the door of the wardrobe.
they will be engulfed in a billowing cloud of smoke
When it clears, a GENIE will be standing in fronts
the wardrobe, waiting patiently. If questioned,
will explain that he is the Genie of the Wardrobe: it
his duty to look after his master’s garments. He w
offer to look after the adventurer’s clothes, proud

116 11 7

Riddle Tables B
First roll one die. If the result is odd, use Table 4 Roll Riddle Answer
otherwise use Table B. Then roll another die to fiz

the riddle. Roll again if you have had the ridce you oe od ‘on en ire
before if you give it water, it w
; die. What is it?
A 2 What kind of earcannot An ear
Die Roll Riddle Answer hear? of corn
1 What hasa face, butno Aclock : What has fourlegsanda Achair
f mouth? back, but cannot walk?
2 What has aneck, butno A bottle $ What gets wet as it dries? A towel
?
Gala : The more you takeaway, A hole
3 What has four fingers A glove the larger it becomes.
and one thumb, and is What is it?
save Tey HCA e sara 6 What comes once ina The letter M
or bone? : 4
minute, twice ina
4 Whatisitthathas four Abed moment, but not once in
legs, one head anda a thousand years?
foot?
5 What runs all day and all A river Ending the Act

night, and never stops?

6 What is it that goes uphill A road a - you want to end the adventure, simply read

<= f i :
and downhill, yet never or path ollowing out to the players
moves? Suddenly there is a jerk, and you are all thrown

srward. You realize that the ship has stopped dead. While

en are picking yourselves up off the floor, you notice a
ssvange, noxious smell. A foul green gas is rising from the
wards beneath you, and you start to choke as it reaches
ur mouths,

118 119

To escape the choking gas, the adventurers mu
make their way on to the deck and off the ship. Fifte
metres away is a beach, beyond which rises dense
jungle. If the adventurers pile into the landing-boat,
then it will automatically be winched down, and ®
will move steadily towards the beach under its ©
power, wait for them to disembark, and then returm
to the Twice Shy. Alternatively, the adventurers
like to swim. The tropical waters are infested with
SHARKS, and three will attack any swimmers
Anyone fighting in the water will do so at —2 SKILL
Each Shark has the following attributes:

SHARK

The Act will end with the tenacious heroes
marooned on the beach, watching the Twice $
floating gracefully off to its next port of call. The Ac
leads on to Act Three, ‘The Pendulum of Fate’.
However, if you have already played Act Three, ©
could easily lead on to the final Act, The Realm
of Entropy’. Simply amend the introduction as
required.

SKILL 7 STAMINA6

120

ACT THREE
THE PENDULUM OF FATE

Players’ Tale

You are on the trail of the Riddling Reaver, a dastardly
tulain whose peculiar behaviour seems to serve the ends of
Luck and Chance. By a strange turn of fate, you find

yourself marooned on a beach. Inland, a dense tropical
jungle stretches as far as you can see. Eerie cries and

screams come from its depths, and a haze of steam rises
into the clear blue skies.

As you consider your next move, there is a horrific
scream. Suddenly something flies out from the forest, high
above you. A terrifying howl comes from it, as tt arches out
fo sea and plummets into the water. It all happens so
quickly that tt takes you several seconds to realize that
uviat you saw was a man! Looking out to sea, you notice
sharks’ fins converging on the spot where the poor soul hit
the water.

Soon afterwards, the same thing happens again -—aman
comes flying out of the jungle and into the sea, This time
you can see roughly which part of the jungle the man came
from; you could easily make your way there. Since the man
wus not winged, and seemed unable to control his flight,
he must have been catapulted by someone or something.
But why?

S's «

CULAR L IL ILILatohobsbshabababib aba

FIP SiG isi Fis ei Fi PUP SrSl Fi PIPE SIH rg et

GamesMaster’s Tale

The Act begins with the adventurers witnessing the
horrible deaths of several explorers. When they
enter the tropical jungle, they soon come across a
gang of vicious mutant Lizard Men. They are killing
a band of explorers, and as the adventurers arrive,
they are about to catapult the last unfortunate into
the sea. When the players rescue him, they discover
that his mission was to recover a priceless artefact
from a shrine hidden in the depths of the jungle. He
agrees to help the party reach the shrine, and warns
that he was attacked by the Riddling Reaver, who he
believes controls the mutant Lizard Men. However,
unknown to the players, he is the Riddling Reaver in
disguise, who wishes to trick the characters into
getting a vital magical artefact, the Pendulum of
Fate. He plans to use it to attack Good and Evil — a
plan which will plunge Allansia into confusion and
benefit his masters, the Trickster Gods of Luck and
Chance.

After a series of encounters in the jungle, the
characters will arrive at the shrine. This living laby-
nnth was placed here by the gods to protect the
Pendulum of Fate, and because of its magical nature
no agent of the gods may enter, The adventurers
may enter, however, and combat the terrors within.
They should retrieve the Pendulum along with
other treasures. The adventure ends as the Riddling
Reaver steals the Pendulum from the party, reveals
his true identity, and makes a dramatic escape.

To start the first Scene, the adventurers must
arrive at the clearing in which the Lizard Men are

123

torturing their victims. If they have any pity, the
players will decide to do this on their own. If they
seem unwilling to approach the clearing, you
(through Dappa, if he is still among the party)
should point out that they are stranded, and that
finding someone who can guide them through the
jungle may be their only hope of survival. You
should then go to Location 1.

124

Scene One: Nightmare in Green

Tasks: To reach the shrine successfully and enter.

1

You force your way through the jungle, guided by despatr-
mg wails. Finally you reach the edge of a clearing and gaze
upon a horrific scene, A band of five grotesque Lizard Men
are using a winch and rope to bend back a-palm tree which
has been stripped of its foliage. They are poking and jeering
ai their prisoner, a ragged and pathetic-looking man
whose hands are securely bound. It looks as though he will
share the fate of his companions unless you can come to his

The Lizard Men are twisted mutants. The Rid-
dling Reaver captured a number of ‘normal’ mutant
Lizard Men and made their mutations even more
exaggerated. They now act as his servants.

They will not actually catapult their last remain-
ing prisoner into the sea (since he is their master in
disguise}, but they will make all the preparations, so
that the adventurers believe him to be in grave
danger.

The Lizard Men are wearing the usual spiky
armour of their race, and they are all twisted and
gnarled. The badge they wear is quite distinctive: it
is a double-headed arrow, the insignia of the Tricks-
ter Gods of Luck and Chance. Each Lizard Man
starts with the same ability scores, though these
may be affected by his particular mutation, which
you should roll up on the Mutant Lizard Man Table.

125

MUTANT LIZARD SKILL9 STAMINAQ
MAN

Mutant Lizard Man Table
Roll two dice, and consult the table to determine the
special characteristic of each of the Reaver’s
mutants.

Dice Rall Mutation

2 Two mutations! Roll the dice to find two
different mutations.
3 Skin-shedder. The Lizard Man can

rapidly regenerate by shedding its
damaged skin. Weapons do it half
damage (rounding down).
4 Prehensile tongue. The Lizard Man has
along, powerful tongue which it can
use to throttle opponents. Each time it
wins an Attack Round, it can do an
extra point of damage by constricting
with its tongue.
Hypnotic gaze. Adventurers must Test
for Luck when exposed to the gaze, with
failure indicating that they are rooted to
the spot for one Attack Round, during
which the Lizard Man will be able
automatically to inflict 2 damage points,
if no other adventurer intervenes to
prevent this.
6 Teeth-spitter. The Lizard Man has a
shark-like array of teeth, some of which
it can spit at an opponent from a

“ws

126 127

10

distance. Before battle commences, it
will loose off a number of teeth. The
adventurer must Test for Luck to avoid
losing 1 point of STAMINA.
Colour-changer. The Lizard Man
changes colour at will. This has no effect
on combat.

Barbed tail. The Lizard Man has a
viciously spiked tail, which it uses in the
manner of a mace. It will have an extra
attack each round.

Slime-spitter. The Lizard Man spits a
corrosive slime at its opponent. The
adventurer must roll under his skILL on
two dice to dodge the slime. If he fails
and it hits, it will do no damage initially,
but will do 1 point per Attack Round
thereafter. To remove the slime, the
adventurer must spend a round wiping
it off, during which he will be
defenceless.

Sulphur-steamer. A cloud of noxious

I2

table to see what the mutation is. His
body will alter to accommodate the
change (for example, he may have to
grow a tail). Any human who has
mutated will be hated wherever he
goes, and will! be run out of most towns.
The mutation may only be cured by
powerful magic.

Multi-headed. Rolla die. If the score is
5-6 then the Lizard Man has three
heads, otherwise it has two. Add 1
point to the Lizard Man’s staMINA and
SKILL ratings for each extra head. These
Lizard Men are very intelligent, and use
whips in battle. Whenever one wins an
Attack Round, the adventurer fighting
it must Test for Luck. If Unlucky then his
weapon has been torn from his grasp by
the whip. He must fight on at —4 SKILL
unless he has another weapon, or
another player gives him one.

purple steam seeps from the Lizard
Man’s skin. This irritates the eyes and
spoils the aim, so an adventurer will
fight at —2 to his or her sKIL.
Plague-carrier. The Lizard Man carries a
mutant virus which may infect anyone
it bites. If an adventurer is wounded by
such a Lizard Man, he should Test for
Luck, If Unlucky, then an hour after the
battle he will start to mutate! Roll on this

If the five Lizard Men in the clearing are defeated,
and the man rescued, he will urge the adventurers
to hurry away from the clearing, for there are more
Lizard Men about and they are sure to return soon.
He leads the way to another clearing, further into
the jungle. This is Location 2.

128 129

2

The man you have rescued introduces himself as Waxley
Speed, explorer and treasure-hunter extraordinaire. He
is very grateful to you for rescuing him from the Lizard
Men. In return, he says, he can lead you to a jungle
shrine, that people say contains a fabulous treasure. He
learned about it when he was given an ancient map by a
dying friend. He assembled a band of explorers and spent
five years searching and overcoming great perils, only to
be thwarted at the last hurdle. This morning, as they were
preparing for the jungle trek, a strange flying vessel
loomed overhead, Not long after, they were ambushed by a
band of Lizard Men. Their leader was a man swathed in
robes, whose manner of speech was rather unusual, He
stole the map of the shrine, and hurried off, leaving half of
his Lizard Men to torture and kill the unlucky explorers.

Waxley tells you that he has a good memory, and has
memorized the map. He can lead you to the shrine if you
are willing. He believes it is the resting place of the
Pendulum of Fate. This obscure artefact is said to give
control over Good and Evil.

Waxley Speed is the Riddling Reaver, who has
changed his appearance to fool the adventurers into
entering the shrine (something he is magically pre-
vented from doing) and retrieving the Pendulum of
Fate, which he needs for his crazed plan.

130

The best route through the jungle to the shrine
leads to each of the locations in turn. If the players
decide they want to stray from this sequence, they
may doso. However, alternative routes will be more
hazardous: roll one die and consult the Jungle En-
counter Table.

Alternatively, the players may decide to try to
skirt locations — finding alternative routes round
them and on to the next location. In this case, you
should roll twice on the Jungle Encounter Table.

There are yet more menaces in the jungle. To keep
up appearances, and to test the adventurers’ mettle,
the Reaver’s mutant Lizard Men will be tracking
them. Adventurers will occasionally hear sourids of
pursuit from the jungle behind them. Also,
whenever they enter a new location or have a Jungle
Encounter, roll a die. On a roll of 1, a party of 1-6
mutant Lizard Men will burst from the jungle
foliage and attack. Roll each Lizard Man’s mutation
on the Mutant Lizard Man Table above.

You should be very careful to make Waxley seem
convincing. Roll some dice secretly during battles to
make it look as if he is fighting. He may even take
some wounds. However, it is not necessary for you
actually to work out any combats in which he is
involved. Waxley is immune to the E.S.P, spell. A
wizard who uses the spell will believe Waxley’s
story to be genuine.

You should do everything you can to make sure
that the players do not decide to attack him. Make it
quite clear that poor, bedraggled Waxley is their

131
only sure guide through the jungle. He is unarmed
(unless one of the adventurers lends him a
weapon), and does not look like much of a fighter. If
threatened, he will! plead for his life, and claim that
he will give the adventurers hundreds of Gold
Pieces when they take him back to civilization. If the
players persist, you should lower each of theirLucxK
scores by 1 for their foolishness. When he has no
further option but to defend himself, the Reaver will
reveal his true nature, cast a powerful magic spell
which will stun all the adventurers for a minute, and
disappear off into the jungle. If they try to follow
him, the adventurers will become lost. You will then
have to change later episodes as necessary, to allow
for Waxley’s absence and for the reappearance of
the Riddling Reaver at the end of the Act.

Jungle Encounter Table
Die Roll Encounter

1 1-2 JAGUARS, each SKILL 8, STAMINA
7.

2 2-7 (1 die plus 1) PYGMIES, each sx1Lt
6, STAMINA 5. If the adventurers have
rescued the Pygmies in Location 6, then
these will be Friendly, and will guide
them to the next location — aiding them in
battle, if necessary. Otherwise, the
Pygmies will be Unfriendly.

3 1-2 GREAT APES, each sk1x1 8,
STAMINA 11, ATTACKS 2.

432

1-6 HEAD-HUNTERS, each sx1L1 7,
STAMINA 6. If the adventurers have the
shaman’s mask (Location 4), and display
it, the Head-hunters will run away.
Otherwise they will attack.

Get lost. Roll one die and add one. The
adventurers will eventually find their
way to this location, after much traipsing
through the forest. While the
adventurers are lost, roll fwice to see
whether mutant Lizard Men catch them
up.

1-6 LIZARD MEN, each SkIL1 8,
STAMINA 8. These are not mutant Lizard
Men and are not servants of the Reaver,
They hate the Reaver’s mutants
intensely. If mutants attack the
adventurers while they are battling these
Lizard Men, then the two types will fight
each other and ignore the adventurers!

Further information about the creatures encoun-
tered can be found in Out of the Pit.

3

You hack your way through the jungle for an hour or so.
You have no way of knowing how far you have travelled,
or what direction, but Waxley seems to know where he is
going. The trees thin out ahead of you, and as you break
dhrough into the open, you see a yawning chasm across
your path. Hundreds of feet below, a small stream mean-
ders towards the sea. Looking around for some means of
crossing the chasm, you see the two posts of a rope bridge.
Bis no use now, however, as the rope has been eaten away
—obviously by the termites that swarm around the posts.
A little way along the edge you can see a makeshift
bridge. A huge, dead, mossy log has been laid across the

Bup.

The only way to cross the chasm is to walk across
the log (the alternative to crossing it is a long trek
along its edge, requiring two rolls on the Jungle
Encounter Table). Vertigo is not going to be the
adventurers’ only worry, however, as the bridge is
actually the home of a GIANT SPIKE SPIDER.
Adventurers who examine the edge of the log care-
fully will note that it does not seem to be wood - it
looks like some kind of resin. Inside this hollow ‘log’
lurks the Spider. [t will wait until its prey reaches
the centre of the bridge before striking. A spike will
shoot out from inside the log. If an adventurer told
you that he was watching the log carefully while
crossing, then he may cross safely. If he was not
watching the log, he must roll against sKIL1L to
dodge the poisoned spike. If he does not avoid it, he
will be paralysed by the Spider’s venom, quickly

135

entangled by its webbing, and left suspended from
the centre of the log. The Spider will scurry back into
its lair to await its next victim.

If they wish to cross safely, or rescue a captured
comrade, the adventurers will have to kill the
Spider. A player must first avoid the spike, then
have one round of combat. If he wins the round, he
has successfully lopped off the Spider's spike. If he
loses the round, he should Test for Luck. If he is
Lucky, he has avoided the Spider’s sting. If he is
Unlucky, he will lose only 1 point of STAMINA, as
the paralysing poison is exhausted after the first
sting.

Even if the Spider’s spike is chopped off, it will
stil] be a menace. The Spider itself will crawl out of
its home to fight.

GIANT SPIKE skILL7 STAMINA6 ATTACKS2
SPIDER

Should an adventurer attempt to use fire to fight
the Spider, he will find it very effective. The ‘log’
will erupt into flame, and the Spider will be burned
up very rapidly. The burning bridge will fall into the
chasm, taking any of the Spider’s bound victims to
their deaths.

Although the adventurers probably will not fall
into the chasm, you should add drama by pointing
out how far it is to the ground if they fall.

136

4

Pressing on into the jungle, you find the ground rising.
You can see a rocky scarp rising above the trees ahead of
wu, Finally, you come out of the trees and see an
unscalable rock wall. Directly ahead, carved from the rock,
=a face. It is ne human face — such bloated, malignant
atures can only be those of some primitive god.

As you approach, you realize just how big the face is. Its
gaping mouth is large enough for a Mammoth to lumber
aito, Its eyes too are huge, and seem to stare at you as if the
stone face were alive.

Moving closer, you come across a grisly boundary.
Shrunken heads have been laid in a crude semicircle
around the face. Some have been picked clean — bare skulls
gleaming white. Others are more recent.

If the adventurers stop at the line of skulls, Waxley
Speed will explain that according to the map, there
is a passage through the rock scarp. There was no
mention of the face, but he is very much afraid that
the way lies through the mouth of the ancient god.

As soon as someone steps across the line of
shrunken heads, alow moaning sound is heard. To
their horror, the adventurers will find that it is the
heads which are moaning. Read the following to the
players:

The moaning of the heads gets louder, and smoke starts
‘o billow from the mouth of the stone god. The feeling that
vou are being watched is confirmed when you see that the
eyes of the stone face are moving! The eyeballs pop out of
their stone sockets, and come floating down towards you.

137

The occupants of the eye-caves are EYE STIN-
GERS, guardians of the stone face. The adventurers
must fight them. Each of the two Eye Stingers has
the following attributes:

EYE STINGER SKILL7 STAMINA 2

Eye Stingers resemble huge eyeballs covered in
spines, and float about a metre off the ground. Each
opponent of an Eye Stinger must Test for Luck or be
entranced by its hypnotic gaze. Hypnotized victims
will be impaled on its spines tipped with a paralys-
ing poison. The paralysis lasts for twenty minutes.

The creatures are. very fragile, and filled with a
sticky corrosive liquid. When its STAMINA is re-
duced to zero or below, a Stinger will burst, splatter-
ing anyone fighting it with the liquid, which causes
2 points of damage.

The smoke billowing from the mouth of the cave
is not of supernatural origin. It comes from a fire lit
by the SHAMAN who lives there. The first adven-
turer to enter the cave will find himself gazing at a
huge tribal mask, worn by the head-hunter shaman.
Its eyes will glow red, and the adventurer will find
himself compelled to tum and fight his nearest
comrade! The shaman may control only one adven-
turer at a time, so the others have a chance to deal
with him before their friends kill each other.

SHAMAN STAMINAZ SKILL6

If the shaman is defeated, the adventurers may
take his mask, and the crude jewellery which he

139

wears. The jewellery is worth 5 Gold Pieces. The
mask requires the primitive magic of the medicine-
man to control an opponent, so the adventurers wilt
not be able to make use of its power themselves.

» Atthe rear of the cave, a dank tunnel leads off into
the rock. The adventurers will need some form of
light. The tunnel’s only occupants are a flock of
COMMON BATS, which will attack if disturbed
by passing adventurers who are noisy (if the players
are talking at all after you tell them about the tunnel,
then you can assume their characters are also being
noisy). Treat the flock of Bats as one opponent. If
their STAMINA is reduced to zero, this means that
the flock has flown off.

FLOCK OF BATS SKILL 4 STAMINA 4

On the walls of the tunnel grow some large green
mushrooms. If these are eaten they will restore 1-6
points of STAMINA. The effect only happens once,
no matter how many mushrooms are eaten. The
adventurers may collect as many mushrooms as
they wish, but as they lose their healing potency five
minutes after being picked, they will be little use in
later encounters.

The tunnel! finally opens out on the other side of
the scarp. Ahead of them the adventurers will see
yet more jungle.

5

You have been travelling for a while, and you are hot and
fred. When you come upon a clearing, Waxley suggests a
west. As you slump down on the ground, he idles over to
bok at the plant in the middle of the clearing. The plant has
mo branches, and looks lonely in the open space.

You rest your tired limbs for a few minutes, lulled into
bol f-sieep by the heat and the monotonous jungle noises.

Suddenly there is a yell. You leap up, to see a tendril
wrapped around Waxley. A hole opens at the foot of the
want and he is dropped into it. There is a despairing wail,
abruptly muffled as the pit closes up.

The adventurers must rescue Waxley from the
GIANT PITCHER-PLANT, if they are to reach
their goal. This plant has submerged its vase in the
soft soil to disguise its deadly nature,

PITCHER-PLANT
TENDRIL

SKILL8 STAMINA

141

4 ,

ry very next round, that adventurer will be dropped
into the pit (the Pitcher-plant’s vase) to join Waxley.
Characters in the pit will lose 1 point of STAMINA
every minute, as they are slowly digested by the
plant! They may try to climb out, but the sharp
spines on the inside will do them 15 points of
damage.

If the tendril is destroyed, it is easy to destroy the
vase. Characters may then be safely pulled out.
Waxley will be barely alive when rescued, and you
should make it clear to the players that he needs
some help — magical healing, or at worst a unit of
Provisions — to recover his strength. Though they
will not realize it until later, the players will be
saving the life of the very man they are trying to
bring to justice!

on

ak T ) rAN Yin s Wives CAA If the tendril wins an attack, it will wrap itself
J aA) OT hth Ah J ib A : around the adventurer. If it is not defeated in the

142 143

Te © Peete < Si eetesia le lh een — F
7 ’ > YY ’ = metlish teat =
‘ ' E om . >) “ ,*
— iy : —— .
¥ “3% >
b Ss

. WLS
i
\%
‘ ‘

6

Your journey continues, and you begin to hear a faint
irumming noise from up ahead. As you get nearer, you
aso catch the sound of chanting. Some native ritual must
he taking place.

Ahead of them, a band of HEAD-HUNTERS
have captured two Pygmies. While searching for
magical Yokka Eggs, the Pygmies strayed into care-
fully laid rope-traps, and are now dangling upside
down, suspended by their tiny feet from a tree. The
Head-hunters are taunting them, and celebrating
their victory over two of their tribe’s traditional
enemies. Later, they are planning to make a succu-
lent feast of the little men.

The adventurers will be able to creep up quite
dlasely, if they successfully move silently (see Fight-
me Fantasy, page 61). They will see twelve extremely
fierce natives, dancing, chanting, and occasionally
poking the Pygmies with their barbed spears. If the
adventurers encountered the shaman, then they
will notice that these Head-hunters have war-paint
m a design similar to the shaman’s mask. Each
Head-hunter has the following attributes:

HEAD-HUNTER SKILL? STAMINA 6

Despite their frightening war-paint, the Head-
hunters are not especially brave. If half of their
number are killed, the rest will run away.

If anyone is quick-witted enough to attack them
while wearing the tribal mask of the shaman, they
will all turn tail and flee screaming into the jungle!

145

The adventurers may decide to free the Pygmy
tribesmen. If they do, the short savages will express
their gratitude. By way of thanks they will offer a
gift — the three Yokka Eggs that they had discovered
at the base of the tree,

Yokka Eggs are laid by the mysterious Yokka bird,
a fabulously rare creature unique to the area. In the
Pygmy tongue, ‘yokka’ means ‘sun’, and it is said
that the birds fly down from the sun to the earth, to
lay their eggs where it is cool. Whether or not this is
true, what hatches from a Yokka Egg resembles a
ball of fire more than it does a bird. If an egg is
broken (for example, by throwing it to the ground),
a ball of fire will leap from it, and shoot up into the
sky. Anyone caught in the blast will lose 1-6 points
of sTAMINA. To throw a Yokka Egg accurately.
players must roll under their character’s SKILL score
on two dice. The Eggs are warm to the touch, so the
adventurers may decide to keep them to stay warm
on cold nights up north!

7

The trees thin out once more, and ahead of you lies a
stretch of mud-flats. The mud has hardened and cracked,
and looks easy to walk across. You should make much
faster progress across here. As you are standing in the
shade of the trees at the edge of the jungle you notice that
hed to a branch of a nearby tree are a number of stiff
athery leaves, aboul a metre long, Looking closer, you
tind they are made from several palm leaves, which have
ceen interwoven and stitched together.

The layer of dried mud is quite thin and brittle.
Seneath it is quicksand! Anyone who tries to cross
the mud-flats without taking precautions will not
get very far before the surface cracks beneath
his feet. A gout of mud will spurt up, and he will
sink into the quicksand. As the wet mud soaks the
surface around the break, the surrounding area will
tum into sludge, making rescue difficult. Anyone
mimersed in the quicksand will be sucked down
and will disappear completely in five minutes.
Comrades must rescue them within this time to save
them from a squelchy death. To do this, they will
have to use ropes (or, if they have no ropes, creepers
from the jungle will do). All that is required to pull
someone out is that one adventurer makes a success-
tul roll against sx1ut (less than sxtLw on two dice).
All adventurers who are not sinking in the quick-
sand may make an attempt. Ifall fail, they may have
another go after three minutes.

A short time after the mud is breached, the
swamp begins to bubble, a foul-smelling gas taints
the air, and the forms of two loathsome MARSH
WRAITHS (each SKILL 7, STAMINA 5) begin to
take shape. Once formed, they will stand motion-
less, moaning plaintively. One will talk to the
adventurers in his ghostly voice, telling them not to
encroach upon the Marsh Wraiths’ home.

If the adventurers are to cross the marsh, they
must defeat the Marsh Wraiths. However, if they
step out on to the mud, they risk being sucked
under by the quicksand. The only safe way to cross
the mud is to wear the swamp-shoes that were
hanging on the tree. These useful objects are used
by the Head-hunters to cross the mud-flats without
breaking the crust. They work in much the same
way as snow-shoes by distributing the wearer’s
weight over a larger area.

Anyone trying to fight while wearing swamp-
shoes will do so at a penalty of —1 to SKILL. If Yokka
Eggs are thrown at the Wraiths, then the highly
flammable marsh gas will ignite — obliterating the
Wraiths, but making the mud-flats an impassable
field of fire.

Remember, if the adventurers decide to try to
avoid crossing the mud-flats by travelling round
their edge, they will have to face two Jungle En-
counters before reaching the next location.

148

8

Exhausted as he is, Waxley Speed is getting excited. You
are nearing your goal! Ahead of you a white marble temple
rises up from a rocky outcropping. When you get nearer,
you realize that entering will not be very easy. The shrine
sits on a high pedestal of rock, which looks almost unclimb-
able, and a gaping chasm lies between you and the
entrance. On either side of the shrine’s entrance sit two
forbidding stone statues of large birds of prey.

The adventurers have reached the shrine in
which the Pendulum of Fate is guarded. Now all
they must dois enter. The bird statues are FLYING
GUARDIANS. If someone tries to climb up the
pedestal, the Flying Guardians will wait until they
are high up the rock-face, animate themselves and
attack. Fighting off the Guardians while climbing
will be impossible — anyone caught on the rock-face
will be knocked off to his death!

149

Re see

The route across to the shrine is a narrow, invisi-

bbke bridge. It may be seen as a faint shimmering (like

that over a hot pavement) by anyone with the eagle
tattoo from Act One, or by the wearer of the eye-
patch from Act Two. Alternatively, if the players
need a clue of some kind, you should tell them that
they see a small bird in mid-air. At first this will not
seem unusual, but then they will notice that the bird
5 not beating its wings, but seems to be sitting in
mid-air.

Once the adventurers have discovered the invisi-

Ste bridge, Waxley will fall dramatically to his

kmees. Exclaiming that he is too tired to go any
surther, he will beg to be left as a Jook-out, He says
shat if he sees the Reaver approaching, he will hurry
bo warn them. For now, however, he is in no condi-
Gon for further exertions.

In fact, since he is an agent of the gods, the bridge
will not support him. This is why he cannot enter
the shrine, and has had to dupe the players into
doing his dirty work for him. His last attempt on the
shrine was by airship, but was thwarted by the
Frying Guardians.

All that is needed to cross the invisible bridge is
bravery. Once the adventurers have entered the
temple, you should go straight to Scene Two,
“Shrine of Destiny’.

151

Scene Two: Shrine of Destiny

Task: Get out of the shrine with the Pendulum of
Fate!
About the Shrine

This is no ordinary shrine. Inside the white marble
there is not (as you might expect) a place of worship.
The shrine contains, or rather consists of, a vast
Creature, created in the Godtime (and therefore
without a name). When they explore the interior of
the shrine, the adventurers will actually be wander-
ing around inside the Creature. The interior is lit by
phosphorescence, so no lanterns are necessary. If at
any time the adventurers use fire, the beast will be
wracked with convulsions. They will be thrown
about violently, suffering a loss of 1 point of sTAM-
INA per minute until the fire is put out. If a Yokka
Ege is broken inside the Creature, the fiery Yokka
bird will fly around, trying to escape, and drive the
Creature into convulsions. After a few minutes, it
will find its way out via the lung chamber.

Another thing the players do not know is the true
purpose of the shrine. Apart from the fact that it
guards the Pendulum of Fate, it is also an elaborate
piace of Sacrifice. While wallowing in the muck that
kmes the tunnels of the Creature’s insides, the
adventurers will slowly be attacked by the Crea-
ture’s digestive juices. They will lose 1 point of
STAMINA for every thirty minutes they are inside
the shrine. To escape, the adventurers must reach
the heart of the beast, at which beats the Pendulum.

The Scene begins with the adventurers arriving at
the entrance chamber, Location 1.

153
1

You open the large, weather-beaten doors of the shrine and
pass inside. You find yourselves in a small, square cham-
ber lit by hundreds of candles. By the doors is a pile of
seceral hundred more unlit candles, On the wall opposite
wou can see a large circle of some black, rubbery hide. There
s nothing in the room apart from this, and no sound but
that of the eerie howling of the wind outside.

In order to enter the Creature, the adventurers
must force it to open its mouth (the circle on the wall
opposite). Since the beast is vast, poking or prising
will have no effect: it simply will not notice them.
They must summon the KEEPER OF THE WAY.
The adventurers must light a candle to do this, and
you should then read the following:

As you light the candle, the air begins to sparkle in front
w the circle on the wall. Brilliant flashes of colour leap
before your eyes, temporarily blinding you. A rich, warm
soice echoes in your mind:

‘Greetings, travellers. It pleases me greatly that in
times such as these there are yet some prepared to make the
sacrifice and join us, Do not linger, for your destiny
euraits.’

Your vision returns, and you can see that the circle ts
pulsing open and shut. You catch a glimpse of a tunnel
beyond, which glows with a dull green luminescence.

155

To continue, the adventurers must overcome
their revulsion and pass through the agitated
orifice. When it opens, they will be able to see the
phosphorescent glow within, and should realize
that they will not need to take the candles in, Once

they are all through, the mouth will close behind

them.

The tunnel they have entered slopes downward
It is the trachea, or gullet, of the Creature, and leads
down toits stomach. The adventurers will be forced
along the tunnel as it contracts behind them.

i ; . . fi on ; - . jas .
iy vs f | if) 7 i aH ;
inh ie yive cy. WAM
oy aa? : pin 1 a\ 4 {

ee ee

156

2

After a short journey along the slimy, fleshy tract, you are
<sgorged into a large chamber. Luckily your landing is
cushioned by the gunk that lines its floor. As with the
cannel, this chamber ts lit by its phosphorescent walls. It is
4ome-shaped, although its shape is continually shifting.
Ss walls throb faintly, and occasionally ducts open in the
<eiling and more gunk rains down upon you. Your feet are
submerged in the muck, and looking around you can see
xime-covered and partially submerged shapes. There are
several ducts leading out of the chamber, and you can
wintly hear strange sounds emanating from them.

Buried in the muck of this chamber are several
skeletons of former sacrifices. Most of their equip-
ment has been corroded, but anyone searching (see
Fighting Fantasy, page 58) among the bones and
sludge will come across a scabbarded sword, which
is strangely untarnished. The sword is magical, and
the name ‘Timakron’ is carved in runes on the blade.
if its name is shouted before battle commences, it
wil fractionally speed time up for its wielder. When
he is fighting, although he will be moving normally,
he will be able to perceive his opponent as moving
more slowly, and his skIL1 score will therefore be
mcreased by 3 for the combat. The sword was
originally wielded by a holy warrior, who used it
only against evil races. Because of this it will never
injure humans, but will use its power to prevent a
blow being landed.

There are six exits from this chamber, apart from
the tunnel in the ceiling from which the players fell.

457

As with all the passages inside the Creature, they
are circular and small, with a thick layer of sludge
coating their floors. From each of the exits comes a
distinctive sound. As the adventurers examine each
exit, you should describe the appropriate sound,
and give any additional description you feel neces-

Saly.

Exit A:

Exit B:

Exit C:

Exit D:

Exit E:

Exit F:

This leads to the lung chamber. You
should suck in and breathe out very
slowly through clenched teeth to
describe the sound coming from the
passage. Tell the players that there is a
strong draught from this exit.

This leads to the iron-digesting chamber.
Teil the players that the passage is quiet,
but if they listen long enough, they will
hear the occasional slapping sound.
This leads to the Mucalytic’s chamber.
There is a monstrous snorting sound
coming from it, along with plenty of
churning and squelching.

This leads to the grinding chamber. A
rumbling and hollow knocking wafts
down the passage.

This leads to the Wrapper’s chamber.
There is a faint sound, like the beating of
leathery wings.

This leads to the blood canal, which in
turn connects with the heart. The slow
pounding of the Creature’s heart can be
heard from the passage.

159

Before the adventurers leave this chamber, they
will encounter the WATCHER. Each player should
attempt to roll under their SKILL on two dice. Any
who succeed will see a small, golden globe float out
of a backpack (roll a die to determine whose back-
pack). Otherwise they will simply notice it hovering
in the air near them. Attempts to capture or attack
the Watcher will fail; it moves so fast that even
Timakron cannot hit it. Jt will follow everywhere
they go in the shrine. The Watcher is one of the
Riddling Reaver’s devices, being the only way he
can see what happens inside the shrine. In his guise
of Waxley Speed he had slipped the globe into one
of the adventurers’ packs before they crossed the
invisible bridge. It costs him dearly, in terms of
energy, to maintain its flight and speed, but he can
use it to help his unknowing pawns in a dire
emergency. If you consider the adventurers to be in
deadly peril, the Watcher will be able to give aid -
but only once. Inside the globe lies a Genie. Its
powers are limited within the shrine, but it can
bring one character back from the dead, or distract
an enemy long enough for the adventurers to
escape.

160

3

As you edge your way down the tunnel, the draught gets
stronger. You feel yourself regularly sucked forward, then
pushed back, by the force of the wind. After a short trudge,
the tunnel opens out into a large domed chamber. High
above you, sunlight streams through a grille. Around the
grille are a host of stalactites, making it a very prickly
ceiling.

The floor of the chamber rises and falls, and you realize
that the wind is produced as air is sucked in and out
through the grille. The up-draught is extremely powerful,
and you feel the drag pulling at you as the air gushes
upwards. If you were to go further into the chamber, you
would no doubt be carried up into the air.

If the adventurers look more closely at the ceiling
of the chamber, they will see gold glinting among
the stalactites close to the grille (a character with the
eagle tattoo from Act One will be able to make out a
golden chalice). The chalice was carried up there by
the draught, and is wedged quite tightly.

Adventurers may decide to try to retrieve it. Todo
this they will have to find a way of safely riding the
up-draught. Getting up is easy: all they have to dois
wait until the up-draught begins and step out into
the middle of the chamber. They should then Test for
Luck. If they are Lucky, then they have grasped a
stalactite, and will be able to hang on when the
down-draught comes. If they are Unlucky, then
they have been thrown against the point of a stalac-
tite. They will be able to hold on, but the injury will
cost them 3 points of STAMINA.

161

Once among the stalactites, an adventurer will be
able to edge towards the chalice. This is not quite the
treasure it may seem — it is actually a SENTINEL.
As soon as it is touched, it will transform into a
deadly golden warnor. This will fall to the floor
(losing 2 points of STAMINA in the process) and
attack the other adventurers. Its attributes, after
landing on the floor, are as follows:

METAL SENTINEL SKILL 12 STAMINA 10

The Sentinel cannot be harmed by non-magical
weapons, unless its opponent is in contact with
some gold (holding a Gold Piece would be
sufficient).

Once defeated, the Sentinel will transmute back
into the form of the golden chalice (which is worth
20 Gold Pieces).

An adventurer up in the stalactites must edge
himself away from the column of air to get down: if
he waits until there is an up-draught, then lets go,
he will drop to the floor quite gently, buoyed up by
the weaker up-draught around the edge of the
room. You should use your judgement to decide
how successful any other methods for getting down
will be.

The chamber is twenty metres high. The grille at
the top is too fine for an adventurer to squeeze
through, and is too securely fixed in place to be
removed.

4

This chamber is suspiciously quiet. Its floor ts covered with
thick purple hairs, which sprout from pores, like hairs ona
turkey-skin. They wave gently in the slight breeze.

The iron-digesting chamber dissolves most of the
iron that accumulates in the Creature’s innards. The
hairs secure whatever it is that is carrying the iron,
so that the IRON-EATERS on the ceiling can drop,
and begin their work of digesting the items. These
will later be passed into the bloodstream of the
Creature, to nourish it.

If the adventurers step into the chamber, they will
be seized by the Purple Hair.

PURPLE HAIR skxitL7 STAMINAO (see below)

Play one Attack Round. If the hair wins, then the
adventurer has been caught, and an Jron-Eater will
drop on him. [f the adventurer wins, he has got free
from the ‘grass’ and may escape. In order to break
free, an adventurer need win only one Attack
Round.

When an Iron-Eater (SKILL 5, STAMINA 0 (see
below)) drops on an adventurer, it will begin to feed
on his metal armour. Every time it wins an Attack
Round, it will digest another item, and the adven-
turer will lose 1 point of SKILL. If the adventurer
wins an Attack Round, then the Iron-eater has been
knocked to the floor. It will then be swept away by
the hairs.

There are twelve Iron-Eaters on the ceiling, buk
they will drop only if their prey is held fast.

164

5

This passage is extremely narrow, and even more disgust-
ing than the chamber you have just been wallowing in. It
goes on for many metres, winding and twisting, and
getting viler as you progress further. It also starts to slope
downwards. It gets harder to stay on your feet as the slime
builds up. The stench is abominable.

The adventurers are approaching the lair of a
MUCALYTIC. This foul beast lives like a parasite
mside the Creature, revelling in the slime and waste
products of the enormous digestive tract. It helps
the Creature, since it reduces anything that enters
its chamber to an easily digestible mulch!

As they get closer to the Mucalytic’s chamber, the
adventurers will be assailed by its stench. If they
press on, the poisonous stink will make them lose 2
points of STAMINA. They will also have to contend
with the slippery slope down into the chamber.
Each foolhardy adventurer should roll two dice. If
the result is less than their sxrtt, then they have
xept on their feet, If they fail, then they will slip
over, and slide down the tunnel, right into the lap of
the Mucalytic,

165

Rie Sy nae

Ne KS Ve in 4
Pry ; 2 :

Its small chamber is full of muck. All that can be
seen of the beast itself is its long snout, poking out of
a pile of ooze, rather like a periscope. If anyone is
stupid enough to enter its lair, it will attack.

MUCALYTIC sx1Lu8 STAMINA ATTACKS2

If the Mucalytic wins three Attack Rounds in a
row, it will have grabbed its opponent, who will be
drawn inexorably to its mouth. It will breathe dead-
ly poisonous fumes, which will kill the character
instantly. Later, if the Mucalytic is not killed, the
adventurer will be slowly transformed into slime!

There is no treasure in the room, If an adventurer
is killed here, remember that the Watcher may be
able to bring him back from the dead. Alternatively,
if all the heroes end up in the Mucalytic’s lair, the
globe might distract the beast, and give them a
chance to escape.

eke eS ~ s
i ee

&

A

6

-1 short tunnel leads to a cavernous chamber, full of large,
semi-transparent balls. They are rolling around and jost-
ng with one another. As there is no one and nothing else

=: the chamber, they must be moving themselves in some
wey. You cannot make out what is inside them, though
whatever it is, must he rushing around furiously, for the
malls to lurch about so violently, On the floor of the
chamber there is a thick layer of poutered debris — obvi-
susly crushed by the relentless churning of these curious
mulls.

There are fifteen balls in the grinding chamber.
=iside each of them is a BALL CENTIPEDE. These
2Ige relatives of normal centipedes built tough
=brous spherical cocoons to live in. They can move
=ese while inside by running at high speed. Any-
one entering the chamber will be set upon by 1-6 of
se Grinding Balls.

<=RINDING BALL SKILL4 STAMINA 3

When a Grinding Ball is reduced to zero sTAM-
<Na, it will split into two jagged halves. Out will
scuttle the Ball Centipede to attack.

SALL CENTIPEDE SKILL7 STAMINA 4

The broken shells will come in very useful as
makeshift boats with which to navigate the Crea-
=re’s bloodstream (Location 8). One person can fit
mto each half.

169

7

As you advance down the tunnel, the noise ahead of yon
stops. You soon emerge intoa dripping chamber. The lumin-
escence of the wall is weaker here, and you have difficulty
making out the contents of the room. You see severai
bones littering the floor, and the occasional glimmer.

The room has quite a high ceiling. Up on the wali
above the entrance clings a WRAPPER, a large,
leathery being, like a blanket with fangs and claws.
Make sure that you know which adventurer is the
first to enter the room. He should Test for Luck. If he
is Lucky, the Wrapper will hurtle into him, but fail
to grapple him successfully. It will then glide up inte
the darkness of the chamber, and back to its perch.
If the adventurer is Unlucky, he will be grabbed, lose
2 STAMINA points, and be enshrouded in its wings.
The wrapped adventurer will find it very hard to hit
the Wrapper, and must reduce his SKILL by 3. Other
adventurers may attack the Wrapper, but they will
risk injuring their companion. If they lose an Attack
Round, they will do 1 point of damage to him!

WRAPPER

If the Wrapper fails in its first attack it will retum
to its perch until the party leaves the chamber. It will
then silently swoop on the last person to leave, who
should Test for Luck, as above.

A number of skeletons are in the Wrapper’s lair.
Several have some treasure. Adventurers searching
the chamber will recover 3-18 Gold Pieces (roll three
dice) and 1-6 jewels, each worth 10 Gold Pieces.

SKILL 12 STAMINAQ

170

8

“is you move down the tunnel, the pounding noise gets
‘ouder. Soon the tunnel opens out, and you see a rushing
stream ahead of you. In the dull glow of the walls it looks
very dark, Moving closer you see that it is red. It must be a
river of blood! It gushes past in a raging torrent. Clearly,
anyone trying to swim in it will be swept away.

The adventurers have found the bloodstream of
the Creature. It is like a subterranean river, flowing
round the Creature’s body to provide nourishment
tor its organs. The adventurers must travel down
the stream to the heart, if they are to recover the
Pendulum of Fate and escape from the shrine.

The current of the stream is very fierce, and
anyone trying to swim in it will quickly be swept
away and drowned. The only safe way to navigate
the stream is to use the shell halves from Location 6
2s coracles (small hemispherical boats). The players
may need hints to realize this: use Dappa, if he is
still around. Paddles will be unnecessary, as the
current will sweep them to their goal — all the
adventurers need to do is hang on! The stream leads
+o Location g, the heart chamber.

172

9

You are swept along by the torrent, veering dangerously
close to the walls as you swish round bends in the tunnel.
Every now and then a fresh stream joins the main branch,
and you hang on for grim life in these turbulent waters. By
the reddish glow of the stream you can make out stalac-
ites, hanging low over the river like the fangs ofa Dragon.
You barely manage to avoid these deadly spikes.

After a nightmare journey, the stream empties into a
mst cavern, The pounding sound is deafening, and the
lake of blood swirls round like a giant whirlpool. At its
centre is a small island. In the centre of the island is a ped-
estal, with two huge tmmobile figures grappling over it.

The current will carry the adventurers closer and
closer to the island. As they approach, they will be
able to see the figures more clearly. They are identi-
cal in every respect, save their colour —- one is black,
the other white. They are powerfully muscled, with
fists like sledge-hammers. Their heads are blank
and featureless. Beneath them, on the pedestal, sits
the source of the constant beat that fills the cham-
ber. The Creature’s heart is driven by the Pendulum
of Fate, which is encased in a short unbreakable
glass tube. The Pendulum itself is very small (about
ten centimetres long), yet swings very slowly. It will
continue to swing no matter what is done to it.

The adventurers will be able to beach their impro-
vised boats on the island and approach the pedestal.
As they do so, they will experience powerful
emanations from the two figures. The black figure
radiates a malign influence of pure Evil, sending

173

shivers down the adventurers’ spines, while |
white figure counters this with an aura of Good
ness. If anyone touches the pedestal or the Pend
lum, the two figures will animate, and begin &
battle each other, ignoring the adventurers co
pletely. It will soon become obvious that the two are
perfectly matched. Each blow landed is returned
with equal force, and neither seems to be able t
press home an advantage.

If the adventurers intervene in the battle in the
slightest way, perhaps siding with the Good figure,
then the balance will be upset. Within seconds, that
figure will have smashed its opponent into &
thousand shards.

The figures are the ICON OF GOOD and the
ICON OF EVIL, pure personifications of ther
essences. Once one is defeated, the remaining [com
will turn to the adventurers and speak. Whichever
one remains, it will say virtually the same thing:

‘Tam the Icon of Good (Evil). I must battle all that =
tainted and impure. There is Evil (Good) within you —1
can sense its presence. You must be purified.’

Ignore the bracketed words if the white Ico
survives. If the black Icon survives, however, y
should substitute the words in brackets.

The Icon will then attack.

ICON

If an adventurer removes the Pendulum from the
pedestal, the pounding noise will abruptly cease.
The whirlpool of blood will slow down and finally

SKILL 12 STAMINA 2

174

stop. The adventurers will be able to make their
escape from the Creature quite easily. The blood
will drain from the lake and channels in a matter of
minutes, and the adventurers will be able to find
their way back up the tunnel and into a duct leading
to the stomach chamber. The fleshy walls of this will
have sagged downwards, and the channel through
which they entered will be easily reached. Atits top,
the Creature’s mouth will be hanging open, and the
adventurers may crawl out and into the entrance
chamber. All the candles will have been snuffed
out. You should then go to Ending the Scene.

™~
~~
— .
i” -
~s 1,
i
;

Ending the Scene

The adventurers have succeeded in escaping the
Shrine of Destiny with the Pendulum of Fate.
However, a little surprise awaits them still. Read out
the following:

You stagger out of the temple and across the invisible
bridge. You have succeeded! The fresh air has never tasted
so sweet, and you gulp down great lungfuls to rid yourself
of the foul stench of the enormous Creature’s innards.

175

With elation, you notice that Waxley Speed is stil
waiting for you. He seems a little changed, however. He ts
no longer wearing the same tattered garb, but flowing
robes. He hails you:

‘Greetings, adventurers. I see you've brought me mv
little trinket. That'll be very useful. You know, Good and
Evil will never be the same again.’

As he speaks, the golden globe which followed you
through the shrine shoots in front of you. There is a flash.
and the next moment the Pendulum has been wrenched
from you and is dangling from the globe, The golden
sphere floats across to the man you knew as Waxley.

‘Thank you,” he continues. "You've all done very well -
| really must congratulate you. But I'm afraid | must be
going: I’ve got an airship to catch!

As he says this, you are engulfed in the shadow of an
enormous flying craft, Waxley, or rather the Riddling
Reaver, raises the golden orb above his head with both
hands. He floats into the air and enters the flying ship.

You have succeeded in escaping from the shrine, but u
seems that victory belongs to your enemy!

This is the end of Act Three, ‘The Pendulum of
Fate’. The Riddling Reaver has escaped with the
artefact to his lair. The final Act, “The Realm of
Entropy’, tells of what he intends to do with it.

176

ACT FOUR
THE REALM OF ENTROPY

Players’ Tale

A mighty artefact has been stolen from your grasp! The
quizzical villain known as the Riddling Reaver has seized
the Pendulum of Fate. This ancient device is said to give
rower over Good and Evil. Who knows for what perverse
2nds the Reaver intends to use it?

The villain escaped by means of an enormous flying

monstrosity, Your only chance to defeat him is to follow
-he craft and track him to his lair. You therefore hurry off
into the surrounding jungle. The airship is heading for
nigher rocky ground, which you can see ahead of you.
Luckily it is not travelling too fast, and you still have it in
sight when it descends, You cannot make out exactly
where it has gone, but it went down very close to a large
waterfall. You must make your way to the falls and try to
and an entrance to the Riddling Reaver's hideout.
_ As you press on, you notice that something very odd is
rappening to the jungle plants around you. The further
you walk, the stranger their colours get. Very soon you are
0 longer walking through a green and brown jungle, but
one which is a riot of colour, with reds, blues, yellows,
oranges and purples in profusion. What is more, the
sapes of the plants seem to have changed. The familiar
sirubs and trees seem to have been warped out of all
recognition — their forms apparently determined purely by
Chance. You seem to have strayed into a realm of entropy,
xhere the only law of the universe is Chance.

177

)

. : A - | ss ; S ‘.

STRATES Boney
oe m0 \S

7

a

GamesMaster’s Tale

The Act commences with the adventurers tracking
their enemy to his secret hideaway. They stray into
the field of Chance which marks his domain, and
encounter its effects in the form of a chaotic array of
plants. They then discover that the waterfall which
they had seen from a distance flows upwards. They
realize that it is the only way up, and after watching
a party of the Reaver’s servants, they throw them-
selves into the fall, and are carried up and along the
river. The river throws them up at a set of marble
steps. They have found the entrance to the Riddling
Reaver's lair Exploring the rooms beyond, the
adventurers will find that in the Reaver's strong-
hold Luck and Chance rule, and many impossible
things may happen, They must find their way
through the menaces of the outer chambers to the
Reaver’s underground inner sanctum and laboratory.

Finally, the heroes will catch up with the villain as
he prepares to use the Pendulum of Fate. His plan is
to change the beliefs of people and creatures all the
way across Allansia. Suddenly, it will no longer be
sO easy to decide who is good and who is evil, as so
many will have changed. This will lead to many
deaths and make it impossible for the Forces of
Good and Evil to know how powerful they are. In
the confusion, Chance will dominate. There will be
a new balance between Good and Evil, and the
Trickster Gods of Luck and Chance will rule.

The whole Act happens in the Reaver’s domain.
The adventurers wiil start the scenario as they reach
the waterfall. You should therefore go to Location 1.

179
my

Scene One: The Reaver’s Roost

Task: To gain access to the Reaver’s inner sanctum.

TN

1

You finally arrive at the waterfall and find your way to a

small ledge very close to the torrent. You soon realize that

there is something very wrong. Your attention is drawn to
a gnarled piece of driftwood that has been caught in the
roiling white water. It is carried upwards! The law of
gravity has been reversed for this waterfall, as the water is
plummeting up from the pool below you, to flow over the

edge of the cliff above. As you peer into the falls, you notice
another ledge on the opposite side of the falls. You can
make out a number of blurred figures, each carrying a
large, bulging sack. They seem to be a number of different
colours, and there is something strangely insubstantial
about them. To your amazement, they hurl themselves off
the ledge, and fly up and over the lip of the falls.

ast

aves Dat Neen.
jaa = ~< ey
:
ss - —- - a
——— he
- .
~~ = -
- Tye SI ae ones ve |

Lee, sal thi beni Tn yi hag

SET) fe ae

1h Oe) sane
Ay

> + alee Mao
- *

+ i
wad in wv "
Fah see
Gemtoma 5,
Joti ‘

ay veh 7%
a *

\ uk nnn

A

wat hel ALA dy

vets AMilrers h, ‘

he wien Sare

saopivel dealiast ula MeO

eoeeer

‘
pide eile

we cot Bu eat

tne

3
:
:
*

=
3
+
=
i

Ss .
= =

“ott ll!
fi asthe
Di yaa bi hella et

The adventurers have spotted a party of the Reav-
er’s REPLICANTHS returning from a scavenging

mission. They will encounter them later, and dis-
cover the secret of their origin. Meanwhile they
must face the problem of reaching the Reaver’s lair.

181

There is no sign of the villain’s airship, but it went
down somewhere just beyond the falls. The cliffs on
either side are sheer, and will be very difficult to
climb. You should make it clear to the players that it
is very unlikely that their characters would all be
able to make it to the top alive.

The Replicanths have shown them the only safe
way up, and the adventurers just have to summon
up enough courage to follow them.

If they do hurl themselves off the ledge, each
player should roll four dice against their STAMINA
scores. If they have rolled lower, then they are fine.
If they have rolled higher than or equal to their
STAMINA, they have swallowed some water while
being buffeted in the fall, and lose 1 point of sram-
INA, They should have kept their mouths shut!

Once the adventurers have fallen up the falls, go
to Location 2.

182

2

Travelling the falls is an exhilarating experience. You fly
upwards, your limbs flailing, and water lashes your faces.
You shoot over the top of the falls, and drop with a splash
into the water. The mighty current drags you along for a
httle way, then washes you up on the shore. Before you is a
magnificent building. It is built of white marble blocks
with multicoloured veins. Above tt floats the huge airship,
moored to a tall pine tree which rises from the roof. The
palace has no windows, but ahead of you a flight of marble
steps lead up to a very impressive pillared entrance. On
the grass near by, a large butterfly is chasing a tiny yellow
Tyrannosaurus, and above you a blackbird flies past
upside down.

As soon as you place a foot on the marble steps, a small,
childlike figure materializes in a puff of sparkling colour.
He is wearing a tall hat, a smart green suit and shiny shoes
with large buckles. He ignores you, and concentrates on
luggling three exquisite green glass bottles.

183

a

© © 6 0] is
f~ =
te ee
/ ~ “ " Fo ' star
y NET r' - “5 i A of
Lk - \ Z Viam fe 5.
om ———
ieee el a oS —— Wylie A
a
thn be alipt | MOO” Guten
a o- oe ; ‘ ON gf B Mie &
Pict ~ wie "ghee 4
”
, OF ie Ub eee he!
oa ———e - ry
‘ “ "
“i , oa —- a
YALE 2a LW i,
LY frrlan § YY KS
Sf Ss a, 2 PP Zs
“ae ee. = A ZZ -- iy

The juggling figure is Finnegan O’Dinnegan, a
LEPRECHAUN. He is juggling three stolen
GENIE bottles. If the adventurers approach up the
steps, he will tell them that he is in charge of
guarding against intruders. But he says he is bored
of juggling the bottles and wants a break. If one of
the party will take over for a short while, he will see
what he can do to get them inside.

If one of the adventurers agrees to take over,
Finnegan will toss the bottles in his direction and
race up the steps and through the doors. The adven-
turer who agreed to juggle the bottles must first
catch them. This requires a roll under sKILL on two
dice. Then he must begin juggling. Initially he must
make another roll against sKILL on two dice to
succeed. As he continues juggling, however, the
bottles feel heavier and heavier, and he must roll
against SKILL twice more. If all of these rolls are
successful, then Finnegan will return, congratulate
him on his dexterity, take back the bottles and point
to the now open doors. If the adventurer fails on any
roll, however, he will have dropped one of the
bottles to the ground. You should then read the
following:

The bottle falls to the ground and shatters. A thick cloud
of purple gas forms above the broken glass, and the form of
a Gente takes shape. He seems to sway unsteadily, as if
seasick, and he addresses you in a booming, though rather
unsteady votce: ‘Which way did that rascal Finnegan 90?
Tell me now or I'll turn you into jellyfish!’

185

If the adventurers point to the doors, the furious
Genie will race through them (leaving them open
behind him). If they refuse to tell the Genie where
Finnegan went, he will threaten to turn them into
jellyfish; if they continue to refuse to tell him, he will
carry out his threat!

If the adventurers refuse Finnegan’s offer, or if
they do not actually juggle the bottles, he will not
open the doors and they will find it very difficult to
get into the building. The huge doors cannot be
forced open, and there is no other way inside. If
they wait for ten minutes without acting, then the
doors will open, and a scavenging party of five
REPLICANTHS will emerge. These peculiar ser-
vants of the Reaver come in different shapes, sizes
and colours, but have all been created in their
master’s laboratory. Each looks like a skeleton en-
cased in jelly. Each Replicanth has the following
attributes:

REPLICANTH SKILL6

If the adventurers defeat the Replicanths, they
will be able to sneak in through the doors.

STAMINA 4

186

3

Passing through the enormous doors, you find yourselves
ina long hall. It ts carpeted with well-mown grass, and in
its centre sits a picturesque wishing-well. There are three
ivy-covered doors off the left and the right walls, and one
door directly opposite.

If the adventurers encountered the party of Repli-
canths outside, then ignore the next section, other-
wise read it out to the players:

By the door opposite, five colourful creatures are busily
at work, tipping the contents of sacks into a hole in the
wall, As you enter, they turn and look at you. You see
with revulsion that they are human-shaped lumps of jelly,
within which the skeleton can clearly be seen. They lumber
menacingly towards you.

ay fly
fy
|

a
i.

If the adventurers did not encounter the Repli-
canths outside, they will have to fight them here.
Each of the five Replicanths has the following attri-
butes:

REPLICANTHS SKILL 6 STAMINA 4

187

If they have already fought the Replicanths, they
may start examining the contents of the hall straight
away. The well in its centre is apparently bottom-
less. If anything is dropped into it, it will quickly fall
out of sight. Fifteen seconds later a hole will maten-
alize in the ceiling, the object will drop from it, and
the hole will disappear. The object will hit the head
of anyone peering down the weil. If the object they
threw down is quite hard (such as a coin), it will do
them 1 point of injury. If it is larger, it will actually
knock them down the well. They will disappear
downwards, only to reappear seconds later out of
the mysterious hole in the ceiling. They will fall
indefinitely until rescued.

Players may wish for whatever they like after
throwing something down the well. Whatever it is,
they will not get it!

Light in the hall (as in most of the rest of the
building) is provided by a glowing ceiling.

The six doors off the long walls have handles, and
can easily be opened. The one in the far wall is large
and metallic. It has no handle, but set into its centre
is a large eye. Beneath this is a hastily scrawled

188

notice: ‘Go away, I’m busy.’ The eye will scrutinize
everyone approaching the door. It will open the
door only if it sees the Riddling Reaver’s face (or its
likeness — one of the stuffed Reavers of later loca-
tions will do fine!). Otherwise the door will squawk,
‘You're not my master, you're not coming through!’

To one side of the door is a hatch in the wail,
labelled ‘Bones’. The hatch opens easily, revealing a
chute leading down into darkness. This is where the
Replicanths deposit the bones which they collect for
the Reaver to manufacture more of their kind. A
player may slide down the chute if he wishes, but
will lose a point of STAMINA from the painful land-
ing on the pile of bones. Read out the description of
Location 4 of Scene Two to them (page 219 ). Players
will not be able to leave that chamber by the door, as
itis barred from the outside: they will have to climb
back up the chute.

Each time the adventurers return to the hall, they
risk encountering one of its denizens. Roll on the
Hall Encounter Table. Moreover, each time they
return the sign on the eye-door will be different.
You should decide what it says, along the lines of
‘Buzz off, I’m working’, ‘I told you to go away’; ‘I’m
warning you — leave me alone!’

189

Hali Encounter Table

Roll one die and consult the table. Encounters 4-6
can only happen once each. Once you have had one
of these, subtract three from the number if you roll it
again. For example, once the characters have met
Finnegan, if you roll 4 it will count as 1, and the
adventurers will have no encounter.

Die Roll

1

Encounter

No encounter.

A party of 1-6 Replicanths (each sk1L1 6,
STAMINA 4) enter the hall. Roll a die. If
the result is even, they will enter from the
main doors, each carrying a sack of bones
to deposit in the bones chute. If the result
is odd, they will come out of the eye-door,
shutting it behind them.

The door across the hall from the
adventurers will open. The Riddling
Reaver will pop his head round it, thumb
his nose at them, blow a raspberry at
them, then slip back into the room,
slamming the door shut behind him.
This is actually a repeating Illusion spell
the Reaver once cast as a tease.

Finnegan the Leprechaun will pop up
out of nowhere. His reaction to the
adventurers will depend on whether or
not they juggled his bottles. If a bottle
was broken, he will hurl insults at the
person who broke it and show the

190

bruises that the Genie dealt him. He will
tell the character, ‘You’re all thumbs,’
and disappear. The adventurer will then
discover that all his fingers have been
turned into thumbs! His sKILu will be
reduced by 3 until the curse wears off
(half an hour).

If the character juggled the bottles
successfully, Finnegan will give hima
five-leafed clover, which will increase the
character's LUCK score by 4 for as long as
he has it.

If the characters ignored Finnegan, he
will float past, nose in the air,
nonchalantly juggling three bottles with
one hand. He will disappear, and a few
seconds later there will be a shattering
sound, closely followed by yelps of pain.
As the adventurers enter the hall, they
see one of the most utterly revolting
creatures they have ever clapped eyes
on, sitting on the edge of the well. Words
cannot do full justice to its fearsome
appearance, but its leathery wings, huge
slavering jaws, repulsive scaly hide and

191

hulking frame would reduce hardened
monster-killers to quivering jelly. If the
players stay in the hall, rather than
cowering back into the room they have
just been in, it will turn and face them. If
they thought its side view was bad, the
full frontal is appalling! It is a
TREMLOW, perhaps the most
fearsome-looking beast in Allansia — but
also the most cowardly (which is why so
few are seen!). Taking one look at the
adventurers, it will shriek in horror,
throw its distended arms into the air, and
bolt for the door, whining pitifully. The
adventurers will not be able to catch it
before it flies off to safer haunts.

The adventurers will notice a buzzing -
sound as they enter the hall. A little old
man is shuffling up and down the hall,
holding a GIANT DRAGONFLY
(SKILL 8, STAMINA 4) ona lead. The
Dragonfly hovers a few centimetres off
the ground, and seems to be cropping
the grass with its mandibles. The old
man mows his way up to the adventurers
without noticing them, and then looks
up, startled. As he does so, the
Dragonfly tears the lead out of his hand.
It will fly twice round the hall at -
breakneck speed before swooping to
attack the adventurers. The old man will
flee out of the hall.

192

4 |

Just before the adventurers open the door to this
‘room’, you should roll one die and add 4: the room
with that number is the room they enter when the
door is opened. The door is a transporting door.
Once the adventurers have shut it behind them they
will not be able to pass back through into Location 5.
If the players tell you their characters are holding
the door open, they will be able to go back into the
Stuffed Adventurers’ Room. It is perfectly possible
for the door to transport them into Location 5 — if
this is the case they will be able to look around and
see themselves entering!

You should roll for a new location each time the
door of transportation is opened.

193

5

Inside ts a long room. Its walls, ceilings and floor are all
bare wooden boards. A group of figures stand motionless
near you, facing the opposite wall, on which there is a
door. They seem strangely familiar, but you cannot make
out their features.

The occupants of this room are stuffed replicas of
the adventurers! They stand together in a little
group, frozen in the act of walking across the room
No matter what the adventurers do to them, thev
will not animate. Their only unusual property is that
they will play an odd game of ‘Grandmother's
Steps’. If the adventurers decide to walk across the
room to the far door, halfway across they will feel
the urge to look round. They will see no movement,
but their stuffed duplicates will have moved several
metres towards them. This will continue to happen
as they make their way further across the room.

If the players tell you that their characters are
watching the stuffed figures as they walk to the
door, they will see nothing. The stuffed figures can
never be caught in the act of moving.

4194

6

The room is obviously a library. Shelves of books line the
uwlis, and opposite you there is a reading-desk. At the
desk, facing away from you, sits a robed figure, intent on
the book before him. It seems you have cornered your
quarry! |

The figure at the desk looks exactly like the Rid-
dling Reaver, even down to his robe. But the players
should know some of their opponent's quirks by
now! It is a stuffed replica of the Reaver which sits
studying the book. The whimsical schemer likes to
have a stuffed version of himself sitting in here, as
he feels it gives the place a ‘friendlier atmosphere’.

Whatever the adventurers do, the figure will not
move. If they attack it, they will easily chop it into
pieces. The Reaver stuffed it with stinging Flies,
however, and when released these will attack
everyone in the room. Adventurers must beat a
hasty retreat from the room to avoid losing 1 point of
STAMINA for every thirty seconds they remain in it.
The only effective weapon against the Flies is fire. If
the adventurers find a way of attacking the Flies

495

Si

gc as iZEG5E:
225 ==EES=e
: = 4 ===
-— = ~
a
a3
fel
;

with fire, then you should treat the whole swarm as
one creature to be fought:

SWARM OF FLIES SKILL6 STAMINA 4

The book which the stuffed Reaver is examining is
made up entirely of blank pages. If the adventurers
examine any of the other books in the room they will
find that these also have blank pages, but they will
also discover the reason for this — the books are
talking books! As soon as a book is opened, it will
begin to talk. It will describe its subject, or tell a
story. The book will continue talking until either it is
shut or someone shouts ‘STOPY’ at it. If a shut book
is opened it will always begin at the beginning. If an
adventurer shouts ‘START! at a book which had
been stopped, it will carry on where it left off.

The Reaver’s book-collection is quite varied, with
a good selection of history, legends and folk-tales.
One of the first books the adventurers will come
across is titled Teach Yourself Demon-summoning, by
Jaiphrai Ah’cha. As soon as it is opened it will begin
to explain the ritual for summoning a FIRE DE-

AWA DT i HiA) ; HN \e MON. If the adventurers allow it to continue to its
19 7)/ Wi ay) 1 NN ; end, the ritual will be completed, and the Demon
t HN Ih} \ Hit mY will be summoned. It will attack immediately.

Wy ’ Hi if } \ “a | | a \ FIREDEMON  sKILL10 STAMINA10 ATTACKS 3
/. ys iy 7 AF, } » ) Are a AN ant \t The Fire Demon will shoot gouts of fire from its
Ae Ae a i Th YS ee AAS fiery nostrils. These hit on a roll of 1~4 on one die
HP RE DE TREO TEA) Nb \, WANN doing 2 points of extra injury, whether it has won or
/ } i) jf}? j fi i th i AWA \ 4H) faa) LAAN: lost the Attack Round. If the Fire Demon is killed, it
Hal A SSL TELE AEE IND CU GL VIANA NASA, Wu will be engulfed in its own flames and disappear.

196 197

_

NANG Cy

, AT iri fil iN, .

ili

7

You have found the Riddling Reaver's dining-room. A
long and impressive table runs the length of the room,
laden with a succulent feast. Guests line the table, though
instead of sitting on chairs they seem to be floating in huge
bottles. At the head of the table opposite you sits the
Riddling Reaver. He stares glumly at you,

The Reaver’s dining-room reflects his macabre
sense of humour. His guests are all former enemies
whom he has preserved in large pickling-jars. The
figure at the head of the table is not the Riddling
Reaver himself, but one of his stuffed duplicates. It
will not speak, but it has been animated so that it can
fight. If the adventurers disturb the feast on the
table (the food is excellent, by the way), it will stand
up, draw a barbed scimitar and attack. Whatever
happens, it will preserve the same glum expression
on its face.

STUFFED RIDDLING SKILL8 STAMINA 6
REAVER

When the stuffed Reaver is cut open (when it is
reduced to zero STAMINA), its contents will spill
out. It is filled with a thick paste, which expands on
contact with air, rather like rising dough. After
expanding it will set solid. Anyone remaining in the
room will be caught in the sticky paste when it
expands. They must be pulled out by friends (two
people must make successful rolls against skILL),
otherwise they will be encased when it solidifies.

199

os
=n Oe OL

Bi NS TET otal ew

200

8

This chamber is exceedingly plush. Gorgeous tapestries
hang from the walls, the floor ts richly carpeted, and exotic
couches are covered with cushions. In one reclines a
familiar robed figure. The Riddling Reaver seems to be
relaxing, heedless of your presence. Over on the wall to
your left is a rack of bottles, from which you can hear a

faint tapping.

This is the Reaver’s sitting-room, where he comes
to relax from the busy life of being an agent of the
gods. As with the library, he keeps a stuffed replica
of himself in here to give the room a friendlier feel.
This is not animated, but is stuffed with small
downy feathers. Anyone attacking the recumbent
figure will cut it open very easily, only to be en-
gulfed in a swirling mass of feathers. They should
Test for Luck. If they are Unlucky, they will sneeze
uncontrollably for the next ten minutes, lose 1 point
of STAMINA, and fight at — 2 to SKILL.

At first glance, the rack of bottles appears to be the
Reaver’s wine-collection. In fact only two of the nine
bottles contain wine. The others act as the Reaver’s
dungeons! The tapping sound is caused by one of
the inmates. If the adventurers examine the bottle,
they will see the tiny figure of a woman inside.
Pulling the cork on the bottle frees her. A cloud of
gas will swirl out, and she will coalesce out of it. She
is short and dark, with a mischievous glint in her
eyes. Her clothes are practical, and she carries a
shortsword. She introduces herself to the adventur-
ers as Baba Lai and thanks them profusely for

201

rescuing her. She explains that she is the leader of a
band of adventurers who set out to rid the world of
the menace of the Riddling Reaver. Unfortunately,
they were caught by a Genie, who imprisoned them
in the bottles. She begs the adventurers to free her
six comrades by uncorking the other bottles.

If they release all her companions, however, they
will discover that Baba Lai was not being entirely
honest. In fact, she and her friends were caught
looting by the Reaver’s Genie. They are out for any
money and treasure they can get their hands on -
and this will include that of the adventurers! Once
they are all freed, they will attack.

SKILL STAMINA
BABA LAI 8 15
CUT-THROAT 6 2

The robber band will not all fight to the death. If
three of them are killed, or if Baba herself
is defeated, the remainder will cut and run.

9

You have entered a long hall, tiled with a chequered black
and white pattern, Leading off the hall are a number of
small doors, like cupioards. Each of these seems to have
writing on if.

The doors in this hall lead to Riddle Cupboards.
Each has a riddle written on it, which describes its
contents, Adventurers may discover the contents of
the cupboards either by solving the riddles, or by
opening the doors. It isa lot riskier to open the doors
without having some idea of what is inside, how-
ever, as the adventurers will soon find out.

There are eight cupboards, four on each side of
the hall, Running down the left-hand wall are cup-
boards A~D, while E~H are on the right. As the
adventurers examine each door, you should read
out the nddle which corresponds to it, so that the
players can copy it down,

Cupboard A
In a corner on the wall
ile in wait for my prey.
Without fists or polearms
I stretch my nets around me;
And my table is seldom bare.

Inside the cupboard is a GIANT SPIDER. It will
attack anyone opening its cupboard.

GIANT SPIDER skILL7 STAMINA8 ATTACKS2

Cupboard B
I've seen you where you never was
And where you ne'er will be;
And yet you in that very same place
May still be seen by me.

Adventurers opening the cupboard door will see
an image of themselves, reflected in a mirror.

Cupboard C
Long legs, crooked toes,
Glassy eyes, snotty nose.

The cupboard contains a GIANT FROG (SKILL
5, STAMINA 7). If its door is opened, it will spring
out, propelled by its powerful hind legs. It will not
fight unless attacked, but will hop around the room
quite violently. Whenever the adventurers are in
this room when the Frog is loose, they must say that
they are keeping an eye on it. If they do not, then
one of them {roll a die to find which one) will be
knocked sprawling by it. If the adventurers are in
combat and the Frog is free, it will knock someone
over every other Attack Round. Anyone knocked
over must spend a round getting up, during which
he may not fight — so an opponent will score a free
blow on him, unless someone steps in to help.

Cupboard D
What has a thousand legs and can’t walk?

Crammed into this cupboard are five hundred
pairs of breeches. Anyone opening the door will be
buried beneath a Jarge pile of cloth!

204

Cupboard E
T have a little house which I live in all alone,
Without doors, without windows,

And f I want to go out I have to break through the
wall.

The cupboard contains a single Yokka Egg (see
page 146 for details), sitting on a velvet cushion.

Cupboard F
He who has it doesn’t tell it;
He who takes it doesn’t know it;
He who knows it doesn’t want it.

inside the cupboard is a large pile of Gold Pieces.
Since there are 300, it would seem to be a major
haul, but the coins are actually counterfeit, made
from a cheap alloy with a thin coating of gold. An
adventurer who examines the coins carefully, and
scratches one of them, will remove the coating and
discover the truth. If the adventurers decide to take
the ‘treasure’, they may have to leave other items
behind, since 300 Gold Pieces weigh a lot. You
should use your judgement to decide whether their
load is too heavy.

Cupboard G
haunt, all pale, the uxaters of foul fens:
Fortune has fashioned me a bloody name,
For greedy gulps of red blood are my fare.
No bones, or feet, or arms at all have I,
Yet bite with three-forked wounds unlucky men,
And by health-bringing lips thus conquer care.

205

As soon as this door is opened, a flood of water
will gush forth, completely drenching the adventurer
who opened it. And there is worse: in the water are
five large LEECHES, which will latch on to the
adventurer who opened the door, and will begin to
suck blood. If they are not removed, the character
will lose 1 point of STAMINA per minute from the
effects of the Leeches. However, removing them isa
nasty business. Pulling off a Leech rips a wound in
the adventurer — causing loss of 2 points of STAM-
INA. So pulling off all five leeches would cost the
unlucky character 10 STAMINA points.

The safest way to remove Leeches is to force them
to release their grip by burning them off. If the
adventurers can find some way of holding the
Leeches very close to fire without harming the
adventurer (for example, by using the wick of a
lantern), all will be fine. If they try something un-
subtle, like burning a Leech off with a flaming
brand, the adventurer will lose 1 point of STAMINA
each time.

Cupboard H
We are little Brethren twain,
Arbiters of Loss and Gain.
Many to our Counters run,
Some are made, and some undone.
But, as Men find to thetr Cost,
Few are made, but Numbers lost.
Though we play them Tricks for ever,
Yet they always want our Favour.

sitting on a satin cushion inside the cupboard are
two small ivory dice, These are the Dice of Logaan,
and are powerful magical items. Any timea playeris
not in combat, he may elect to roll the Dice of
Logaan. Take a pair of dice and nominate one as
plus, one as minus. Roll the pair, and subtract the
result of the minus die from that of the plus. Apply
the final result to the character's LUCK score (for
example, if the minus die is 4 and the plus die is 3,
then the character would lose 1 point of Luck).

Alternatively, the dice may be used asa last-ditch
measure in combat. If the adventurers are doing
battle, they may do down their opponents by means
of the dice. Take a pair of dice and nominate one as
the skit die, the other as the stamina die. Roll
the dice and note the results. You should then take
the value of the skirt die off the opponent's sKILL,
and the value of the stamina die off the Oppo-
nent's STAMINA. If the adventurers are fighting
more than one opponent, you should tell them the
results, and let them divide the penalties among
their opponents as they see fit. Throwing the dice in
this manner can only be done once — the dice will
then lose their magical powers,

10

A strange sight greets your eyes as you enter this room.
Three weird disc-shaped creatures seem to be torturing a
poor fellow. They have bound kim hand and foot, and as
you watch, two of them hurl him into the air. The other
shouts ‘Heads! as they do so. The man lands painfully on
his knees, and the two throwers raise a cheer. Some Gold
Pieces are slid across the floor, and vou notice that there
are two piles of gold and silver, Then the creatures notice
you. They frown at you and wait expectantly.

The round creatures are WHEELIES. Theadven-
turers have interrupted their gambling game. If the
adventurers approach them in a friendly manner,
they will explain the game, and will let them play for
a while.

The game is quite simple. First of all, wagers are
laid. Then two of the Whevlies throw the bound
prisoner into the air, and the remaining one shouts
‘Heads’ or ‘Tails’. Depending on which part of his
body the prisoner lands on, the bet is won or lost —
winner takes all,

if the adventurers agree to play, the Wheelies will
team up against them. All three will throw the
prisoner into the air, and the adventurers must
choose ‘Heads’ or ‘Tails’. One of the adventurers
should be nominated as the spokesman, who will
make the call. The players should decide who does
this. Then play out a number of rounds. The game
fan continue for as long as each side still has some
money to gamble, and the adventurers still want to
carry on. Run each round as follows:

209

1. Decide how much money is to be wagered on
the throw. The money must be shown: adven-
turers cannot bet money they do not have. The
Wheelies will match the bet if they can, other-
wise they will bet as much as they have.

2. The Wheelies will then toss the prisoner into
the air. The adventurers’ spokesman must call
‘Heads’ or ‘Tails’.

3. Rolla die. If the result is 1-3, the prisoner has
Janded on his head, arms or upper body (this
counts as ‘Heads’); if the result is 4-6, he has
landed on his legs or lower body (this counts as
Tails’).

4. Ifthe adventurers guessed correctly, then they
get their bet back, along with that of the
Wheelies. If they guessed wrong, then they
lose their bet. Go back to 1 and start again.

The Wheelies have 57 Gold Pieces and 64 Silver
Pieces with which to bet (10 Silver Pieces = 1 Gold
Piece).

If the adventurers do not seem interested in the
game, take a dislike to the Wheelies, or want to
rescue the prisoner, they will have to fight them.
Before battle is joined, the Wheelies will have a
chance to spin round, each throwing one of their
knives at the adventurers. These hit on a roll of 1--3,
doing 2 points of srAMINA damage. Each of the
three Wheelies has the following attributes:

STAMINA6

WHEELIE SKILL 7

210

The prisoner, unfortunately, has been driven
mad by his ordeal, He can do nothing except babble
numbers, and will show no gratitude if rescued and
freed from his bonds. He will sink down into a

corner, talking to himself, and refuse to budge from
it.

Ending the Scene

The Scene ends when the adventurers find the
means to get through the eye-door. All they have to
do is ensure that the eve sees the Reaver’s face.
There are three stuffed Reavers in this Scene, and of
these, two can easily be dragged out of their rooms
and shown to the eye. Alternatively, if one of the
adventurers is a wizard, an illusion of the Reaver
would do fine.

When the adventurers pass through the eye-
door, they will see a flight of stairs ahead of them.
These lead down into the Reaver's laboratory. You
should now proceed to Location 1 of the final Scene,
‘In the Laboratory’.

211i

tc)
ed
bt

LABORATORY

REAVERS

212

Scene Two: in the Laboratory

Tasks: Defeat the Reaver! Escape the laboratory.

I

You edge your way down the stairs, noticing that the light
has changed colour. The ceiling is now glowing an eerie
shade of blue. Coming to the bottom, you find yourself in a
small empty room. There is a door in the opposite wall of
the room. You can dimly hear a strange rumbling noise,
but you cannot tell exactly where it is coming from.

This room is the entrance to the Reaver’s labora-
tory. Itis completely empty. The dooris unlocked. If
the players open it, they will see a corridor leading
into the blue gloom. There are doors on either side of
the corridor. The corridor leads to the various rooms
within which the Reaver performs his experiments.
Every five minutes, a Replicanth will come out of
the first door on the right (Room 3), and make its
way along the corridor to the room at the end, which
it will enter. If the adventurers are in the corridor
they will have to fight the Replicanth.

REPLICANTH SKILL6 STAMINA4G

When attacked, the Replicanth will try to Escape
(see Fighting Fantasy, page 54). You should work out
which end of the corridor the Replicanth will be able
to escape to. Ifitreaches the Production Room (Room
3), it will return with five of the eight Replicanths
from that room. If it reaches the Reaver’s Sanctum
(Room 9), it will return with 2-12 of its fellows

213

2

This room is wood-panelled, and has shetves all the way
around the wall, on which sit racks of test-tubes. The
fest-tubes are all stoppered and labelled, and contain
powders of different colours. Af one end of the room ts a
trough full of water, As you opened the door, you created a
draught, and this has blown a stack of papers into one of
the test-tube racks, A test-tube of icy blue powder is
knocked out, rolls gently along the shelf, then falls down
on to the water trough. The glass shatters, and a faint
sprinkling of the powder settles on the water. There is a
furious bubbling, which slowly dies down. Then you
notice a pair of beady eyes watching you from over the edge
of the water trough.

This room contains an assortment of POW-
DERED CREATURES which the Reaver keeps in
storage for the odd occasions which crop up in his
hectic life. He refined his Particle Blender (see Room
5) to reduce various creatures to a concentrated,
powdered form. Ail they require is added water,
and they revert to their original shape. Of course, if
only some of the powder is used, the creature will
1 LP egy ee Fit gl” VITAE py, not revert to full size. This is what has happened to
Pre Oe us. oe _ tlt UPO? sayy the creature currently observing the adventurers. It
Vota, aa, Uhl CL tte yy is a SILVER DRAGON, or rather, a miniature

Yin

‘--
vee “
hed a
TIT Oa TPO
rs on,

eh
me oe

ee ho
-

Ae
Oey

~~ s,
—- =

0S To ts,
~idben

e Me igh Mi lt - Silver Dragon.
fm 4 Nal. Ll rary lle Wij (NTATURE SKILL6 STAMINAS ATTACKS4
s fe - . a se - = ze i. - ue a —
Go ae ai a pea DRAGON
2 m7 d — Nh z “> = v2
SS ean Pi

214 215

Every three Attack Rounds, the Dragon can
breathe a sheet of cold at one opponent. The target
must roll less than his sk1LL on two dice, otherwise
he will lose a STAMINA point.

The Dragon will attack as soon as all the adventur-
ers enter the room. It is not entirely aware of its
miniaturization, and thinks itself easily a match fora
few puny humans.

Most of the powdered creatures are quite mun-
dane. There are plenty of cats, dogs, rabbits and
birds, but very few monsters. The Silver Dragon
was the pride of the Reaver’s collection. The list
below gives the selection of monsters which the
adventurers may be interested in. If they take some
of the animal tubes, you should decide for yourself
which creatures they contain. If the adventurers use
only a portion of any of the powders, the resulting
creature will be small and you should reduce the
SKILL and STAMINA Scores as you see fit.

SKILL STAMINA ATTACKS

3 CROCODILES 7 7 2
1DEATH DOG 9 10 1
2GARKS 7 11 1
1 MAMMOTH 10 16 2
1MANTICORE 12 18 3
3NANDIBEARS 9 11 2
1GIANT

SCORPION 10 10 2
4SLYKK 6 5 1
1WYRM 9 12 3
2XOROA 10 11 1

3

There is a loud gurgling noise coming from the room.
Inside, the large chamber is dominated by three huge vats.
A pulley apparatus hangs from the ceiling above them.
Dangling from this are three repulsive objects. Furthest
away from you is a bleached human skeleton. The two
which are closer have been coated with a jelly. The three are
slowly being pulled along until each is over one of the vats.
They are then lowered. Beyond the vats, eight of the
jelly-like creatures you have encountered before are stand-
ing by a lever, sifting through a pile of bones. As they spot
you, they move towards you menacingly.

The adventurers have discovered the secret of the
Replicanths. The Riddling Reaver has developed a
process for coating skeletons in a jelly-like subst-
ance which makes them easy to animate. The result-
ing creature has a crude intelligence, and may be set
simple tasks and left to get on with them. The
Reaver has set a number of his Replicanths the task
of manufacturing yet more. The process is quite
simple. First a skeleton is assembled from bones
stored in Room 4, with a sticky paste being used to
fuse the bones together. Then the skeleton is hung
from a hook connected to the pulley apparatus.
When the machinery is operated (by the lever), the
skeleton will be moved slowly along the line and
dipped into each of the three vats in turn, until the
Replicanth is finished.

Replicanths are currently being produced at the
rate of one every five minutes. You should keep
track of the time after the adventurers first enter the

217

f-

7) Aen oi

a _ —

ote

room. If they do not stop the production-line, new
Replicanths will be produced.

To stop the production-line, the lever at the far
end of the room must be pulled back. But there are

eight Replicanths in the way! Each has the following
attributes:

REPLICANTH SKILL6 STAMINA 4

If the fight lasts more than five minutes, of course,
another Replicanth will come off the production-
line and join in.

There is a barred iron door halfway down the
right-hand wall of this room. The bar can easily be

removed, and the door swung open, leading to
Room 4.

4

The room is dark, lit only by a faint blue glow from the
ceiling. It is full of bones. All the bones that you can see are
human bones, although these vary in size. Some are

obviously the bones of Pygmies, while others are strangely
malformed.

The room is simply a store-chamber for the bones
used in the production of the Replicanths. Apart
from the iron door, the only other exit is up the

steep, narrow chute to the hall above (Scene One,
Location 3).

219

i} | | iy i i if Hi) Hy Wf 5

i | | if AY YY Wf This room is quite small, and the light within pulses
a//': Wf Ye gently. On its far side stand two plates of metal, two

Wy metres square, facing each other. Coloured light dances

between them, and high-pitched squeaks hurt your ears.

The Riddling Reaver is well versed in the magical
arts, and is also adept at creating and adapting
machinery to suit his needs. In this room, he has
combined the two. Between the metal plates a
magical field has been set up. The field has no effect
upon non-living materials. If a living creature pas-
ses into it, however, it will start to mutate. Its skin
will change colour, its limbs will be warped and
twisted, and its hair will fall out. After a few seconds
within the field, a creature will lose 1 point of
STAMINA, but will gain a peculiar mutation (roll on
the Mutant Lizard Man Table, pages 127-9).

The Reaver used this device to create the mutant
Lizard Men who serve him out in the jungle,

The room is bare apart from the metal plates, as
the presence of too much matter would interfere
with the field generated between the plates.

views
rei] + ree

Sareea tes

hPa ikisl
TIS eL Mee 12 he

|
.
=
=
el
—
-
7”
'
7:
_
=
>
>
os
a

test. 10d 1tets

Petar Ot) oo Re
?

1225 ih We aetue

OH. UIE 8 eee CML

¥ ao \\ \ “ Q SS ‘
uv AVWAN ~A A
‘ AY " \\ \ " \ N

ian ee
Z .

6

The room is dominated by a large black piece of machinery.
Steam hisses out of its joints, oil drips on to the floor, and
there is grating of metal, It feels as if the machine isa living
creature. You can see that there are two chutes built into it
on the side facing you.

The machine is a Particle Blender. It was devised
many years ago by a wise scholar, who came upon
the principle by chance. The machine takes items,
separates them into their component particles, and
then reassembles them.

If an item is dropped into one of the chutes, there
will be a loud whirring and grating, and after a few
seconds the item will fall out of a hole round the
back of the machine. If examined, it will be found to
be undamaged, and slightly cleaner than it was
when dropped in. If two items are dropped into the
chutes at the same time, though, they will be
blended together. What will emerge from the hole at
the back will be an item combining the characteris-
tics of the two items. For example, if the adventurers
dropped a sword and a shield into the machine,
what emerged would be a shield with a sword-blade
protruding from it. it is up to you to decide exactly
how the characteristics of any items the adventurers
drop down the chutes are blended.

The chutes are quite narrow, so an adventurer
would have to be very thin to pass down them. They
would be unwise to do so, as the process is invari-
ably fatal.

There is nothing else of interest in the room.

223

Aff)
WM”
Life

7

This is clearly a work-room of some kind. It is filled with
benches, stools and odd-shaped pieces of machinery. In one
corner there is a small forge with an anvil, while assorted
tools are hanging from the walls. Near by a huge set of
plate armour stands proudly. Nearly three metres tall, it is
covered with spikes. It is obviously the work of a master
armourer, with no area vulnerable to attack.

Most of the pieces of machinery are rejects from
failed projects, or scraps which the Reaver felt might
come in handy some day. The adventurers may
examine them at their leisure, but they will be
unable to get them to do anything.

The suit of armour is a different matter. The
Riddling Reaver has always been a little sensitive
about his fighting prowess, His incredible luck
(which derives from his patron gods) makes up for
this, but it still irritates him. He therefore built a suit
of armour which would make him invincible. Not
only would the suit protect him from injury, it
would even fight his battles for him! All he would

225

have to do, to be the most feared warrior in Allansia,
would be to climb inside and operate the controls.
Unfortunately for him, it did not quite work. He
could not seem to get the controls to work properly,
and the armour had a bad habit of going berserk
during tests and wrecking his laboratory. Eventually
a new project claimed his attention, and he forgot
about his desires to become a mighty warrior.

An adventurer examining the suit of armour will
discover that there is a hatch round the back. This
will open easily, and one character will be able to
ease inside, and into a small contro] chamber. He
will have room to move his arms, and will see a few
levers in front of him. One of these is noticeably
larger than the others. If the adventurer pulls this
lever, the armour will shudder and take a step
forward. If the adventurer pulls the same lever
again, the armour will step back and slump inert. If
he touches any of the other levers, however, the
armour will go berserk. It will attack anyone else
who is in the room.

226

MECHANICAL

ARMOUR SKILL 14 STAMINA 20

All weapons do —1 damage to the Mechanical
Armour. Once the armour’s STAMINA is reduced to
5 points, further successful attacks will do 1 point of
injury to the adventurer who is inside! The player
inside may seek to control the armour when it goes
berserk. Pulling the large lever is not enough. He
will have to experiment with combinations of levers
until the armour is finally deactivated. Every Attack
Round the player should roll against sk1LL on two
dice, adding 4 to the roll, If the result is less than his

SKILL, he has succeeded in switching the armour
off,

227

8

Above the door to this room are four brass rings. One still
has a piece of frayed rope knotted on to it. When you open
the door, you can see nothing inside but blackness. It is not
just darkness, but the complete absence of any light at all.

This is the Void Room. It is where the Riddling
Reaver disposes of his more troublesome enemies.
There is nothing beyond the door but Void. Anyone
who steps in, without retaining some contact with
the corridor (for example, by having a rope tied
around them, held by friends outside the room or
tied to the brass rings), will be lost for ever in a
Nothingness that exists outside of existence. They
may chance to bump into some of the other eternal
prisoners of the Void, but this is unlikely, as the Void
is infinitely large. Since it is outside existence, there
is no way a character lost in the Void can be brought
back — even gods are powerless to intervene.

229

9

The large iron door to this chamber has a small grille. As
you approach the door you can hear the slow, steady chant
of massed voices coming from it. Looking through the
grille, you see a vast rough-carved cavern. The guttering
light of over a hundred swaying torches illuminates the
cavern, Each ts held by a foul jelly-like creature, staring
intently at the far end of the cavern. The torches sway in
time to the chant, which in turn follows the pounding from
the podium at the far end,

There you can see the Riddling Reaver, conducting
some bizarre ritual. Behind him, flames shoot up from a
lava flow. In front of him lies a tranquil pool of clear water.
On either side of him, huge fluted pillars glow with
demonic light.

Floating above the poo! of water you can see the
Pendulum of Fate. The terrific pounding is coming from
this. You sense that the artefact is straining against forces
which seek to destroy it. The Reaver gesticulates wildly al
tt, and the pounding gets louder, Your hearts seem to be
hammering against your rib-cages mm time to the
thumping.

The adventurers have arrived in time for the
culmination of the Reaver’s plan. The ritual is
directed at destroying the Pendulum, so that the
established order of Good and Evil will be thrown
into disarray.

The adventurers will find it very easy to slip into
the chamber unobserved, and they will not be spot-
ted until they draw attention to themselves by tak-
ing action, or until after five minutes (if the produc-

231

tion-line of Room 3 is still working), when a new
Replicanth will join its brethren.

There are 132 Replicanths in the chamber, so the
adventurers wil! have to come up with a better plan
than charging into battle, if they are to thwart the
dastardly plot. Several possibilities exist. Players
may think of some ingenious plan that will interrupt
the ritual successfully; if they try something that is
not covered below, you should use your judgement
to decide whether it works. Try to make sure that
whatever happens is as dramatic and exciting as
possible: remember, this is the climax of the adven-
ture. Think of it like an adventure movie. There
should be lots of explosions, plenty of fighting, and
success should only just be achieved.

The most obvious ways of putting a stop to the
Reaver’s machinations involve throwing things
over the crowd of Replicanths. A Powdered Crea-
ture, thrown into the pool of water in front of the
Reaver, would come to life and attack him by sur-
prise. A Yokka Egg thrown successfully would dis-
tract him. If the Dice of Logaan were to be thrown
they would cause a mighty eruption, as the power
of the Trickster Gods of Luck and Chance them-
selves was turned against their servant.

You should use your judgement in playing out
the final scene. There will be plenty of Replicanths
to fight, though the confusion will be such that very
few of them will be organized enough to spot the
adventurers and attack them. It is very important
that the heroes keep the Riddling Reaver distracted
— and keep confusion reigning. He is such a deadly

232

enemy that if he is allowed time to assess the situ-
ation and take organized action, he will be able to
defeat the adventurers very rapidly. Once captured,
they would not have very much of a chance! No
statistics have been given for the Riddling Reaver
He is not an enemy who can be fought in the
nermal way, Rather you should use your dramatic
flair and judgement as GamesMaster to decide the
outcome.

Since this is the climactic battle; you should feel
free to bend the rules a little to make things work
You should also try to make sure that the Riddling
Reaver either escapes destruction at the last mo-
ment (getting away in his airship, perhaps), or dies
in such a way that his body cannot be recovered
(falling into the lava stream would be ideal — with a
last manic laugh, of course!). This way you will have
set yourself up for the reappearance of the Reaver in
a subsequent adventure (after all, it could have been
a stuffed Reaver that died, while the real Reaver
could have made his getaway). It is astonishing just
how enthusiastic players will get about tracking
down an old enemy who has eluded them in the
past, It is also strange how old enemies seem to have
a habit of cheating death!

Ending the Story

You should decide to end the story at the most
appropniate moment. It would make sense to end
the adventure immediately after the heroes defeat
the villain. Making their way back through the

233

Reaver’s Roost would probably be an anticlimax
after they have beaten him. Then again, a bit of
mopping up of last pockets of resistance would
make sense, and the adventurers face the dismal
prospect of a trek through the jungle back to civiliza-
tion,

If you have played through the whole book, your
players should now have a saga they can relate with
pride, You can now develop your own stories from
here, using parts of the plot to help you. The adven-
turers may return to Kallamehr with the news of
their victory. Who knows what thnilling adventure
they will find when they get there? That is for you to
decide. . . guided, no doubt, by Luck and Chance!

234

Steve Jackson's
SORCERY!

i. THE SHAMUTANTI HILLS

Your search for the legendary Crown of Kings takes you to
the Shamutanti Hills. Alive with evil creatures, lawless
wanderers and bloodthirsty monsters, the land is riddled
with traps and tricks waiting for the unwary traveller, Will
you be able to cross the hills safely and proceed to the
second part of the adventure - or will you perish in the
attempt?

2. KHARE — CITYPORT OF TRAPS

As a warrior relying on force of arms, or a wizard trained
in magic, you must brave the terror of a city built to trap the
unwary. You will need ail your wits about you to survive
the unimaginable horrors ahead and to make sense of the
clues which may lead to your success — or to your doam!

3. THE SEVEN SERPENTS

Seven deadly and magica] serpents speed ahead of you to
warn the evil Archmage of your coming, Will you be able to
catch them before they get there?

4. THE CROWN OF KINGS

At the end of yourlong trek, you face the unknown terrors
of the Mampang Fortress. Hidden inside the keep is the
Crown of Kings — the ultimate goal of the Sorcery! epic. But
beware! For if you have not defeated the Seven Serpents,
your arrival has been anticipated . . .

Complete with all the magical spells you will
need, each book can be played either on its own or
as part of the whole epic.

Penguin Fantasy Titles
For older readers

THE DRAGONLANCE CHRONICLES

From the creators of DUNGEONS AND DRAGONS now
comes DRAGONLANCE, an exciting new fantasy trilogy
about the creatures of legend who threaten the destruction
of the world of Krynn

A group of long-time friends — knight and barbarian,
warnor and half-elf, dwarf and kender and dark-souled
mage — are given the power to save the world. Join their
exciting adventures in a quest io find the True Gods and
save Krynn from endless night

1, DRAGONS OF AUTUMN TWILIGHT

A small band of unlikely heroes set out on their quest td
save Krynn from the dragons’ evil grasp. They have hope —
a blue crystal staff im the hands of a beautiful woman — and
they have courage. But the forces of evil are strong .- . .

2. DRAGONS OF WINTER NIGHT

The darkness deepens and the companions begin a
dangerous search for the Dragon Orbs and the legendary
Dragonlartce, ancient weapons of the True Gods,

3. DRAGONS OF SPRING DAWNING

The dread enemy, Takhisis, the Queen of Darkness,
poisons all with her evil, Only Tanis, the leader of the band
of heroes has the will to destroy it. He must summon all his
strength, courage and faith for the ordeal which lies
ahead .,.

THE CRETAN CHRONICLES
John Butterfield, David Honigmann and Philip Parker

i. BLOODFEUD OF ALTHEUS
2. AT THE COURT OF KING MINOS
3- RETURN OF THE WANDERER

Set in the mythological world of Ancient Greece, this
3-book epic brings an exciting historical dimension to
Adventure Gamebooks. YOU are Altheus, sent to evenge
the death of Theseus, your elder brother, whose body lies
trapped in the labyrinth of King Mines. The combat system
has been extended to incorporate the concepts of honour
and shame.

MAELSTROM
Alexander Scott

Complete with beginners’ and advanced rules, referee's
notes, maps and charts. Maelstrom is a full role-playing
game for several players. YOU choose the characters, YOU
decide the missions and YOU have the adventures in the
turbulent world of Europe in the sixteenth century.

es

Fantasy Questbooks — 32 pages, full colour

THE PATH OF PERIL
David Fickling and Perry Hinton
Dlustrated by Rachel Birkett

The famous explorer, Edmund Mallory, has been foully
murdered, and the legendary Bloodstone, which he ac-
quired under mysterious circumstances on his last travels,
is missing. All that remains are the scattered fragments of
the explorer’s diary, his personal notebook and most of the
contents of his ransacked study. An almost unsolvable
mystery. Yet it seems that the explorer himself expected to
meet a violent end and prepared the way for YOU to track
down his murderer and recover the Bloodstone. Unfortu-
nately the clues he laid have been scattered in the turmoil
of his terrible death. All the information you need is here,
ingeniously hidden in both text and pictures, and each'
strand of the mystery unravels to reveal the next. Are YOU
sharp enough to crack it?

STARFLIGHT ZERO
David Fickling and Perry Hinton
Illustrated by Peter Andrew Jones

One by one the Free Planets have fallen to the relentless
advance of the Dark Ships until only Caldoran and Palonar
remain. Then a last, despairmg message comes from
Palonar and Caldoran is on its own. It seems that the
invaders, armed with the power of the invincible Black
Light, will soon conquer the last outpost of resistance. The
only hope for the survival of Caldoran is one last desperate
mission by a small group of star fighters to strike at the
source of the Black Light. And YOU are part of the
mission,

ny jar

HELMQUEST
David Fickling and Perry Hinton
Ittustrated by Nik Spender

Atlantis was once a land of peace and prosperity, its golden
age assured by the power that Daimos, master of the gods,
had invested in the Bright Helm — power to protect the land
from evil and sorcery. But then the Helm was shattered
into twelve pieces by the dark gods and their servant
Vorash, Now each piece lies hidden in a dark and accursed
place, protected by one of the evil gods. But YOU have
chanced upon the log kept by Na-Manon, priest of Atlan-
tis. This log will reveal the journey made by the evil ones as
they concealed each piece of the Helm. Do YOU have it in
your power to recover those pieces and remake the Helm,
thus restoring peace to Atlantis? All the information you
heed is there, ingeniously hidden in both text and pictures,
and each strand of the mystery unravels to reveal the next
The quest of the Helm awaits you. Do YOU dare to take
up the challenge?

THE TASKS OF TANTALON
Steve Jackson
Illustrated by Steven Lavis

Gallantaria is reeling from the aftermath of a long and
costly war. Tantalon, wizard of the court, mules the king-
dom over an Inner Council of scheming knights, jealously
vying for power. But Tantalon’s years are drawing to a
clase. In order to seek out the kingdom's sharpest minds,
Tantalon has devised an epic adventure quest. YOU area
competitor in the Sorcerer’s quest: can YOU steal the
Brimstone Dragon's treasure hoard? Will YOU find a way
to free Sir Dunstable from imprisonment in the Stinn
dungeon? And how will YOU catch the Demon Fish? All
the information you need is ingeniously woven into the
text and pictures. All YOU have to do is to take up the
challenge and crack the mystery!

swondarne

