This edition published in the UK in 2005
by Wizard Books, an imprint of Icon Books LtL,
The Old Dairy, Brook Road, Thriplow, Cambridge 5G8 7RG
www.iconbooks.co.uk/ wizard
Sold in the UK, Europe, South Africa and Asia by Faber and

Faber Ltd., 3 Queen Square, Landon WC1N 3AU
or their agents
Distributed in the UK, Europe, South Africa and Asia by
TBS Ltd., Frating Distribution Centre, Colchester Road,
Frating Green, Colchester CO7 7DW
This edition published in Australia in 2005 by

Alien and Unwin Pty. Ltd., PO Box 8500,
&3 Alexander Street, Crows Nest NSW 2065

Distributed in Canada by Penguin Books Canada, 90 Eglinton
Avenue East, Suite 700, Toronto, Ontario M4P 2Y3

ISBN 1 84046 642 1

Text copyright © 2005 Ian Li
Ilustrations copyright © 2005 Martin McKenna

The author and artist have asserted their moral rights.

No part of this book may be reproduced in any form, or by any
means, Without prior permission in writing from the publisher.

Typesetting by Hands Fotoset

Printed and bound in the UK
by Cox and Wyman Ltd., Reading

To the Warlocks of Kilimanjaro:
Andy, Charles, Darren, Dave, Doron,
Graeme, Harry, Jeff, John, Kelly,
Mark, Roger, Sean and Tony.
Special mountain, special guys,
special memories

CONTENTS

FIGHTING MONSTERS
7

ADVENTURE SHEET
14

BACKGROUND
16

EYE OF THE DRAGON

21

FIGHTING MONSTERS

Before embarking on your adventure, you must first
determine your own strengths and weaknesses.

Use dice to determine your initial SKILL, STAMINA
and LUCK scores. On pages 14-15 there is an Adventure
Sheet which you may use to record the details of an
adventure. On it you will find boxes for recording
your SKILL, STAMINA and LUCK scores.

You are advised to either record your scores on the
Adventure Sheet in pencil, or make photocopies of
the page to use in future adventures.

Skill, Stamina and Luck
Roll one die. Add 6 to this number and enter this total
in the SKILL box on the Adventure Sheet.

Roll both dice. Add 12 to the number rolled and enter
this total in the STAMINA box.

There is also a LUCK box. Roll one die, add 6 to this
number and enter this total in the LUCK box.

For reasons that will be explained below, SKILL,
STAMINA and LUCK scores change constantly during
an adventure. You must keep an accurate record of
these scores and for this reason you are advised either
to write small in the boxes or to keep an eraser handy.

But never rub out your Initial scores. Although you
may be awarded additional SKILL, STAMINA and
LUCK points, these totals may never exceed your
Initial scores except on very rare occasions, when you
will be instructed on a particular page.

Your SKILL score reflects your swordsmanship and
general fighting expertise; the higher the better. Your
STAMINA score reflects your general constitution,
your will to survive, your determination and overall
fitness; the higher your STAMINA score, the longer
you will be able to survive. Your LUCK score indicates
how naturally lucky a person you are. Luck — and
magic — are facts of life in the fantasy kingdom you are
about to explore.

Battles

You will often come across pages in the book which
instruct you to fight a creature of some sort. An
option to flee may be given, but if not — or if you
choose to attack the creature anyway - you must
resolve the battle as described below,

First record the creature’s SKILL and STAMINA
scores in the first vacant Monster Encounter Box
on your Adventure Sheet. The scores for each creature
are given in the book each time you have an
encounter.

The sequence of combat is then:

1. Roll both dice once for the creature. Add its SKILL
score. This total is the creature’s Attack Strength.

2. Roll both dice once for yourself. Add the number
rolled to your current SKILL score. This total is your
Attack Strength.

3. If your Attack Strength is higher than that of the
creature, you have wounded it. Proceed to step 4. If
the creature’s Attack Strength is higher than yours,
it has wounded you. Proceed to step 5. If both
Attack Strength totals are the same, you have
avoided each other’s blows - start the next Attack
Round from step 1 above.

4. You have wounded the creature, so subtract 2
points from its STAMINA score. You may use your
LUCK here to do additional damage (see over).

5. The creature has wounded you, so subtract 2 points
from your own STAMINA score. Again, you may
use LUCK at this stage (see over).

6. Make the appropriate adjustments to either the
creature's or your own STAMINA scores (and your
LUCK score if you used LUCK - see over).

7- Begin the next Attack Round by returning to your
current SKILL score and repeating steps 1-6. This
sequence continues until the STAMINA score of
either you or the creature you are fighting has been
reduced to zero (death).

Fighting More Than One Creature

If you come across more than one creature in a par-
ticular encounter, the instructions on that page will
tell you how to handle the battle. Sometimes you
will treat them as a single monster; sometimes
you will fight each one in turn.

Luck

At various times during your adventure, either in
battles or when you come across situations in which
you could either be lucky or unlucky (details of these
are given on the pages themselves), you may call on
your LUCK to make the outcome more favourable.
But beware! Using LUCK is a risky business, and if
you are unlucky, the results could be disastrous.

The procedure for using your LUCK is as follows: roll
two dice. If the number rolled is equal to or less than
your current LUCK score, you have been lucky and
the result will go in your favour. If the number rolled
is higher than your current LUCK score, you have
been unlucky and you will be penalized.

This procedure is known as Testing your Luck. Each
time you Test your Luck, you must subtract 1 point
from your current LUCK score. Thus you will soon
realize that the more you rely on your LUCK, the
more risky this will become.

10

Using Luck in Battles

On certain pages of the book you will be told to Test
your Luck and will be told the consequences of your
being lucky or unlucky. However, in battles, you
always have the option of using your LUCK either to
inflict a more serious wound on a creature you have
just wounded, or to minimize the effects of a wound
the creature has just inflicted on you.

If you have just wounded the creature, you may Test
your Luck as described above. If you are Lucky, you
have inflicted a severe wound and may subtract an
extra 2 points from the creature’s STAMINA score.
However, if you are Unlucky, the wound was a mere
graze and you must restore 1 point to the creature’s
STAMINA {i.e. instead of scoring the normal 2 points
of damage, you have now scored only 1).

if the creature has just wounded you, you may Test
your Luck to try to minimize the wound. If you are
Lucky, you have managed to avoid the full damage of
the blow. Restore 1 point of STAMINA (i.e. instead
of doing 2 points of damage it has done only 1). If you
are Unlucky, you have taken a more serious blow.
Subtract 1 extra STAMINA point.

Remember that you must subtract 1 point from your
LUCK score every ime you Test your Luck.

11

Restoring Skill, Stamina and Luck
Skill

Your SKILL score will not change much during your
adventure. Occasionally, a page may give instruc-
tions to increase or decrease your SKILL score. A
Magic Weapon may increase your SKILL, but remem-
ber that only one weapon can be used at a ime! You
cannot claim 2 SKILL bonuses for carrying two Magic
Swords. Your SKILL score can never exceed its Initial
value unless specifically instructed.

Stamina

Your STAMINA score will change a lot during your
adventure as you fight monsters and undertake
arduous tasks. As you near your goal, your STAMINA
level may be dangerously low and battles may be
particularly risky, so be careful!

Your backpack contains enough Provisions for ten
meals. You may rest and eat at any time except when
engaged in a Battle. Eating a meal restores 4 STAMINA
points. When you eat a meal, add 4 points to your
STAMINA.

Remember also that your STAMINA score may never
exceed its Initial value unless specifically instructed

on a page.

Luck

Additions to your LUCK score are awarded through
the adventure when you have been particularly
lucky. Details are given on the pages of this book.
Remember that, as with SKILL and STAMINA, your
LUCK score may never exceed its Initial value unless
specifically instructed on a page.

Alternative Dice

if you do not have a pair of dice handy, dice rolls
are printed throughout the book at the bottom of
the pages. Flicking rapidly through the book and
stopping on a page will give you a random dice roll. If
you need to ‘roll’ only one die, read only the first
printed die; if two, total the two dice symbols.

—
ADVENT TURE SHEET 1 MONSTER ENCOUNTER BOXES |

ra LUCK Skill = ;
| oa ee Luck=
!
| ! | ! | | i
4} ' ! ' j t
— Pee a | A —— ~
Still = Séci] ~ iif =
| | Nove ano rrens pei = ‘isa |
| |
' ' ‘

BACKGROUND

Like any seasoned adventurer, you are always inter-
ested to hear rumours about gold, diamonds and
hidden treasure. Unfortunately, you have been down
on your luck recently and you are struggling to earn
the few copper pieces needed for food and lodgings.
You are hoping that your luck will soon change.

Two days ago you arrived in Fang, a town notorious
for its deadly labyrinth Deathtrap Dungeon. The
annual challenge is taking place next month and
the town is buzzing with excitement.

You are staying in the damp attic of the Blue Pig
Tavern, sharing your room with other travellers and
wretches who have fallen on hard times and so you
always sleep with your sword under your pillow. One
night a stranger enters the room and slumps down
on the bed opposite you. Lit by the pale moonlight
coming through the single window, you see that he is
a tall, thick-set man dressed in dark robes that hide
all but his eyes. The amount of dirt and dust on his
clothes shows that he has travelled far.

You are intrigued by this stranger and offer him a
drink from your flask which he accepts with a grunt.
He introduces himself as Henry Delacor and he tells
you of his recent adventures; how he almost lost his
life in search of a legendary item of treasure.

16

Naturally, you are excited to hear about the treasure
and offer him another drink in the hope of gaining
more information. He goes on to tell you of his five-
year search for a metre-high solid gold dragon with
jewelled eyes. He describes in detail how he finally
found the underground labyrinth that led to the
golden dragon.

He tells you of all the monsters he killed in the
labyrinth to reach that dragon, and how he even
entered the room in which it had been hidden for
years. He smiles as he recalls the pleasure of first
sighting the dragon, but tells of how angry he became
when he noticed that the jewelled eyes were missing.
He had been told that without the eyes the dragon
could not be touched as to do so would mean instant
death. He was not sure if this was true or not, but he
did not dare find out for himself. He left the room
without touching the dragon, and began to search the
labyrinth in the hope of finding the two emerald eyes.

The search almost cost him his life when he entered a
cave and was attacked by a two-headed troll some
three metres tall. Having survived the battle he
decided to give up his quest as gold was of no use toa
dead man!

17

You tell him that you are an adventurer, like himself,
and that you would dearly like to finish his quest. You
ask him to tell you where the labyrinth ts located. He
replies that he will on condition that if you find the
gold dragon you will bring it back to him and share
the spoils from its sale.

‘I promise you it is worth more than all the gold in
Deathrap Dungeon, so there will be plenty of wealth
for both of us,’ he says convincingly. ‘At a guess f
would say it’s worth 335,000 gold pieces!’

You assure him that if you succeed, you will definitely
return.

‘In that case you won't mind drinking this!’ he says
gleefully while handing you a small glass bottle of
purple liquid.

On asking him what it is, he tells you that it is a slow-
acting poison and unless you return to him for the
antidote within fourteen days you will die. You
snatch the bottle from him, stare at him coldly, and
drink the liquid in one gulp. He then produces a map
that shows the way through Darkwood Forest to a
woodcutter’s hut. Inside there are stairs leading down
from a trapdoor to. an underground labyrinth. At that
point the map ends, although he warns you that the
passageways are inhabited by violent, evil people
and fearsome creatures. He then lies down on his bed
and goes to sleep exhausted. You try to sleep yourself
but are restless and can think only about the danger-
ous adventure that awaits you. In the morning the
mysterious stranger hands you a small leather pouch.

18

Inside you find a large emerald cut in the shape of
an eye!

‘I found one. I hope you find the other. Here, take it.
You will fail without it. I will wait for you here.
Remember two things. One, you have fourteen days to
return and no more. Two, find the matching emerald
to the one I gave you and place both in the eye sockets
before you touch the dragon itself,’ he says very
seriously,

Before setting off for Darkwood Forest, you fill your
backpack with provisions, put the leather pouch and
10 Gold Pieces in your pocket and say goodbye to
Henry Delacor. ‘Good luck,’ he says, ‘you'll need it’,
Then the huge, balding man extends his hand and
doesn’t so much shake yours as crush it. His icy blue
eyes stare out from his chubby face, watching you
carefully, Although he is smiling, there is something
in his eyes that makes you feel uncomfortable and
unwilling to trust him. But it's too late to change your
mind now! You set off and look back once to see him
leaning against the doorway of the Blue Pig Tavern.
is there a golden dragon? Are you being slowly
poisoned? What is it about Henry Delacor that makes
you feel so ill at ease? No doubt all these questions
will be answered in the coming days.

NOW TURN OVER

19

I-2

1
The three-day trek across the Pagan Plains to Dark-
wood Forest is exhausting. It passes without inadent
apart from an attack by two wild dogs that you
quickly dispatch with your sword. The most memor-
able sight of the journey is the view to the east of
Firetop Mountain with its distinctive red peak rising
sharply up to the sky. You pass by the dwarf village
of Stonebridge, cross Red River and finally enter
Darkwood Forest. You follow the map through the
foreboding forest and finally arrive at the wood-
cutter’s hut nearly five days after leaving Henry
Delacor at the Blue Pig Tavern in Fang. Despite feel-
ing tired and hungry, seeing the woodcutter’s hut is a
real boost to your spirits. The small hut is made of oak
and its front door is open. You poke your head
through the doorway and shout ‘hello’ in the hope of
seeing the woodcutter, but the piles of dirt and debris
on the floor tell you he is long gone. In the far corner
of the hut you see a wood-burning stove and under-
neath a dirty rug you discover a trapdoor. You lift it
up and see wooden steps leading down into the gloom
below. If you want to search the hut first, turn to 311. If
you want to go straight down the steps, turn to 69.

2

Confident that you have made the right choice, you
step forward to pull the dagger from the wall. Turn to
280.

Cd Ee
a

3
The breastplate fits perfectly but it is not what it

appears. It was made by an evil sorcerer who cursed
the metal which it was made from. Even though you
think the breastplate will defend you, the curse has
actually weakened you. Lose 1 SKILL point, 1 LUCK
point and 3 STAMINA points. Turn to 151.

4

You cross the cavern and see that here, too, the wall is
solid rock with no way out. There is a rope hanging
down from the high ceiling but you cannot see where
it leads to. If you want to climb up the rope, turn to
406. If you would rather walk around the wall of the
cavern in the hope of finding a way out, turn to 40.

5

The moment you sit down in the chair you fall into a
long deep sleep. You wake up hours later to find that
you have been robbed. All the gold has been removed
from your backpack by the Dark Elves who made
the magic sleeping chair. Then you notice that your
sword has also been stolen and has been replaced by a
blunt, short sword. Reduce your sKILL by 2 points.
But at least the Elves did not find the leather pouch
containing the emerald. Angry at yourself for falling
into the trap, you stride on up the corridor cursing
loudly. Turn to 220.

67

6
You enter a small room which is completely empty
except for a playing card lying on the floor. It is the
Queen of Spades and it looks slightly unusual in that
the queen has a very wide grin on her face. If you want
to pick up the card, turn to 129. If you would rather
leave the room and walk on, turn to 112.

7
As the walls close in, you just have time to grab the

emerald and dive through the hole in the wall. You
land heavily on the floor of an enormous cave. Water
drops noisily on to the floor from the tips of stalactites
hanging down from the high rock ceiling. The cave is
lit by a strange fluorescent fungus, which grows in
patches all over the walls and gives off an eerie amber
light. ‘Well, is it the one we are looking for?’ Littlebig
asks excitedly, his words echoing loudly throughout
the cave. You can hardly contain your own excitement
as you untie the leather pouch given to you by Henry
Delacor so you can compare the emeralds. You hold
them next to each other and examine them carefully.
They match! ‘Yippee!’ shouts Littlebig happily run-
ning around in a circle waving his hands in the air.
You place both emeralds back in the pouch and tell
Littlebig to calm down and look for a way out of the
cave. Turn to 266.

8-9

)

You climb slowly up the rope and peek through the
hole in the ceiling. You find yourself looking inside a
cluttered room that is filled with all sorts of objects:
chests, armour, weapons, statues, vases, idols, sacks
and boxes. It looks like a storeroom full of stolen loot.
You cannot resist the urge to pull yourself up through
the hole and rummage through the loot. You are
almost through the tight-fitting hole when suddenly
three short humanoids, just a metre tall but with large
heads and mean-looking faces, jump out from behind
the boxes armed with clubs, They shout at each other
in high-pitched twittering voices, and one of them
rushes forward to whack you on the shoulder with its
club before you can free your hands to defend your-
self. Lose 2 STAMINA points. You are being attacked
by thieving NIBLICKS who love nothing better than
to trap unwary travellers, beat them to a pulp and rob
them. If you want to drop down to the corridor below
and retrace your steps, turn to 144. If you would
rather fight the Niblicks, turn to 231.

9
On the right-hand wall of the corridor you see a large
oak door with big iron hinges. The skeletons of several
small rodents are nailed to the door. If you wish to
open. the door, turn to 211. If you wish to carry on
walking up the corridor, turn to 166.

10-11

10

You walk up to the cage and push on the door. You
are amazed when it opens and the young woman
immediately walks towards you. As her smile
broadens you notice two long fangs extending from
her upper jaw. With a crazed look of hunger on her
face and her mouth wide open, the Vampire lunges at
you. This undead creature is unafraid of your sword.
if you have garlic, turn to 372. If you have a silver
dagger, turn to 163. If you have neither of these, you
will have to fight. Turn to 107.

11
A deep frown appears on Littlebig’s face as you raise
the bottle to your lips. But you smile and wink at him
and gulp down the clear liquid in one go. You feel a
warm, tingling sensation as the liquid runs down
your gullet. All your aches and pains from combat
disappear and your scars vanish too. Gain 4
STAMINA points. You thank Pia for giving you the
potion of healing.

‘My pleasure,’ Pia replies softly.

‘I don’t wish to appear rude,’ Littlebig says hesitantly,
‘but would you mind telling me what a nice girl like
you is doing in a place like this?’

Pia raises her hand over her mouth and starts to
giggle. ‘Not everything is as it seems, my dear dwarf,’
she replies. ‘What you see is not what I am. It’s an
illusion brought on by another of my potions. In
reality I am a lady long of age and short of teeth.’ Pia

a

Iz

then tells you that she has spent her whole life
perfecting her potions, many of which are unknown
in the rest of Allansia. She came to live in this dungeon
to get away from people who tried to steal her secret
formulas. But now and again she does sell potions to
people she likes. ‘Well do you like us?’ Littlebig asks
enthusiastically. ‘So far’, she replies teasingly. ‘To you
two I am prepared to sell my Clear Vision potion, my
Water Breathing potion and my Green Skin potion.
All of them cost 5 Gold Pieces each.’

After buying the potions you want, and paying Pia,
you bid her farewell and leave the room. Turn to 265.

12
The rats suddenly stop a metre in front of you, as
though they have hit an invisible screen. The bracelet
you are wearing, although cursed, has low level
creature control magic properties. Add 1 Lucx point.
The rats quickly scurry back down the hole they
appeared from, making the Witch more furious than
ever. She starts mumbling strange words in a low
monotone voice, and you watch almost transfixed as
her arms elongate from her body and transform into
snakes! You have no choice but to fight the Snake
Witch.

SNAKE WITCH

With her venomous snake heads, the Witch has two
attacks to your one. If you are bitten three times, turn
to 352. If you win, turn to zo.

SKILL 10 STAMINA 6

13-16

13
Floresto smiles and looks very confident as he raises
his sword to signa! the start of the duel.

MASTER SWORDSMAN sKILL 11
If you win, turn to 152.

STAMINA 6

14
The silver key turns the lock of the silver box. It clicks
open and inside you find a polished stone etched with
the words ‘three axe’. Turn to 227.

15
You make a wish but nothing happens. This is not a
wishing pool. If you want to reach into the pool to
collect some of the gold coins and recover the Gold
Piece you tossed in, turn to 369. If you want to walk
direcily to the door opposite, turn to 322.

16

The scroll is in fact a map of a section of the dungeon.
It shows a passageway with two doors next to each
other. One door has a green square painted on it
and the other door has a blue triangle painted on it. The
door with the green square is circled in ink with
the words “this way” written underneath it. You
show it to Littlebig who says, ‘Let’s not forget this, it
could be important.’ If you have not done so already,
you may either uncork the flask (turn to 245) or take
the sword (turn to 358). If you would rather leave
these where they are and walk, turn to 212.

17-19

17
You begin to feel very ill as you rummage through
your backpack for the bottle. You uncork it quickly
and gulp down the potion. It acts immediately and in
less than a minute you feel well again. Add 2
STAMINA points. Turn to 201.

18
You examine the sword closely hoping to find a clue
to convince you that you have made the right choice.
Sweat breaks out on your forehead as you reach out to
take the sword. Turn to 106.

'
%

|
ae f

19

The doll is hollow and breaks into small pieces on the
floor. Lying amid the clay shards you see a gold ring.
Inscribed on the inside of the ring you see some
strange runes which you don’t understand. You hand
the ring to Littlebig who presses it close to his nose to
read the inscription. ‘Tt says “ring of zombie control”,
I believe,’ Litthebig says rather smugly. “That could
come in useful. Here, you better take it.’ You place it
on your middle finger before walking back down the
corridor. Turn to 234.

Cc} GI

20-22

20
The corridor soon turns sharply left. Around the bend
you see an alcove in the left-hand wall where water
gently trickles from the mouth of a stone fountain
carved in the shape of a hideous looking Hag. If you
want to drink at the fountain, turn to 340. If you would
rather keep on walking up the corridor, turn to 136.

21

You crawl into the dark recess which leads to the Giant
Spider's lair. Your face brushes against a thick, sticky
web which you claw at blindly with your hands. As
your eyes adjust to the darkness you see some items
among the debris. There is a glass ball, a broken dagger,
an iron key with the number 34 stamped on it, a short
stick sharpened at both ends and a leather pouch.
Inside the pouch you find an exotic yellow flower that
ts dry and withered. It gives off a wonderful aroma
and you feel immediately energetic and strong. Add 1
SKILL and 1 STAMINA point. After taking any of the
tems that you want, you manage to climb slowly out
of the pit and carry on up the corridor. Turn to 98.

22
The Hanging Snake is very quick to strike. You swing
your sword at the incoming tail, but miss. The tail coils
itself around you so that you are unable to move and
barely able to breathe. Slowly, the snake rises upwards
carrying you with it into its lair in the ceiling. Its enor-
mous head and jaw will have no trouble in devouring
you within the next hour. And there is nothing that
Littlebig can do to help you. Your adventure is over.

EJ Ee

23-26

23

The ugly Ogre grunts and snuffles but doesn’t wake
up. Sweat runs down your brow as you reach the
chair. The acrid smell of the Ogre’s unwashed body
fills your nostrils. Slowly you lift the bag off the back
of the chair and tiptoe out of the cave. In the corridor
you open the bag to find a dagger and a gold ring
which fits nicely on the thumb of your left hand,
Breathing a sigh of relief, you walk on. Turn to 139.

24
As you try to uncork the bottle it slips out of your
hand and shatters on the stone floor. You see wisps of
white smoke escaping from the broken bottle and,
thinking it may be poisonous gas, you decide to run
out of the cavern. Lose 1 LUCK point and tum to 76.

25

When you lift the lid of the box the whispering voice
changes to hysterical laughter. At the same time purple-
coloured gas escapes from the box and envelops you
completely. You start coughing uncontrollably
and wherever you move the gas cloud follows. Soon
you are gasping for air and start to choke. You have
sprung a trap of poisonous gas and nothing can
save you. Your adventure is over.

26
The door opens into a cold room which is empty
except for a large mirror hanging on the wall. There is
another door in the opposite wall. If you would like to

27-28

look in the mirror, turn to 51. If you would rather walk
past it and open the door opposite, turn to 243.

27
You attack the Ghost from behind as it faces Littlebig
in frantic combat. But your sword simply cuts right
through the Ghost, as though it wasn’t there, causing
itno harm at all. You yell at Littlebig to make a run for
it. The Ghost turns to you as Littlebig runs for the
door.

GHOST GUARDIAN

If you win an Attack Round, you do not cause the
Ghost any damage. It just gives you the chance to try
to escape. Test Your Luck. If you are Lucky, turn to 401.
If you are Unlucky, turn to 263.

SKILL 8 STAMINA O

28

You cannot stop yourself from falling over back-
wards. The Uglukk Orc seizes its opportunity and
swings its mighty club into your side with a dull thud.
Lose 1 SKILL point and 2 STAMINA points. If you are
still alive, you roll over in great pain and try to get
back on your feet before the Ughukk can strike again.
Turn to 313.

fe] £4

29-31
a9

The cell starts to cloud with dust as you rummage
through the dirt, making you cough. You find bits of
old bone, fragments of rock, some huge toenail clip-
pings which must have come from a giant creature,
and some tom rags. You are about to give up the
search when your fingers find a small velvet pouch.
You untie the knotted string and find two items side
the pouch: a gold bracelet and a gold nugget. You
put the nugget in your pocket and decide what to do
with the bracelet. If you want to put it on your wrist,
turn to 272. If you would rather leave it behind and
jump down into the room below, turn to 64.

30
If you are wearing a silver armband, turn to 56. If you
are not wearing a silver armband, turn to 279.

31
The stone clatters along the tunnel until it comes to
rest somewhere out of sight. You listen carefully and
hear the distant sound of a deep growl. Lose 1 LUCK
point. ‘Whoever or whatever is at the end of the
tunnel knows we are here now!’ says Littlebig some-
what apprehensively. You decide that you must crawl

32-34

along the tunnel straight away and be ready for
combat at any time. Turn to 405.

32
The liquid seems to burn your throat, but the feeling
changes to a soothing glow. You have drunk a potion
of healing. Add 2 STAMINA points. There is a little of
the potion left so you replace the cork in the bottle and
put it in your backpack. Feeling a lot stronger, you
leave the room and continue up the corridor. Turn
to 336.

33
Much to your relief, none of the ceiling stones hit
either Littlebig or you. ‘Phew!’ Littlebig says exhaling
noisily. “That was a little too close for comfort’. You
gasp a sigh of relief, slap him on the back and walk on.
Turn to 255.

34
The iron key turns the lock of the iron box. It clicks
open and inside you find a polished stone etched with
the words ‘one spear’. Turn to 227,

EY}

35-36

35

Taking one end of the heavy lid each, Littlebig
and you strain to lift it. Huffing and puffing, with one
mighty heave you manage to lift it a centimetre and
slide it on to the floor. It lands with a crash, breaking
into several large pieces. Something starts to rise out
of the chest and now you realize it is not a chest but
a stone coffin. An armoured skeleton with a golden
crown on its skull steps out of the coffin brandishing
a long sword.

SKELETON KING SKILL 9 STAMINA 7

Edged weapons like swords and daggers do little
harm to Skeletons. You will only cause it to lose 1
STAMINA point during a successful Attack Round.
But in each Attack Round you have two attacks to the
Skeleton King’s one because Littlebig can fight too. If
you win, turn to 399.

36
Littlebig sighs and says in a disgruntled voice, ‘I can’t
believe you want to keep rummaging around in this
cockroach-infested stink hole.’ You decide to rip open
some of the sacks. Most are filled with grain which has
long since turned to dust, thanks to the mites and
assorted insects that have been feeding without inter-
ruption for years. Suddenly a silver ball rolls out of
one of the open sacks on to the floor. If you want to
pick up the ball, turn to 256. If you would rather agree
with Littlebig and leave the room and walk on, tum

to 346.

PJ E

37-39

37

Although made of old iron, the breastplate you are
now wearing is magical. It seems to glow in the semi-
darkness and you feel suddenly more powerful. Add
1 SKILL point and 1 LUCK point. There is nothing else
of interest in the room except for some dried leaves
that you find inside a brown leather pouch. The leaves
give off a very unpleasant smell. After deciding
whether or not to take the leaves, you leave the room
and continue walking up the corridor. Turn to 151.

38

“Try a different weapon,’ says Littlebig casually. But
when you try to let go you find that you can’t. Your
hands seem to be stuck to it like glue. Suddenly you
feel a shock run up your arm like a bolt of electricity. 1
happens again, only with greater force. You struggle
to free yourself but cannot. When you are hit a third
time you pass out and are left dangling helplessly.
There is nothing Littlebig can do to save you as
another bolt of electricity finishes you off. Your
adventure is over.

39
You empty your backpack on to the floor and pick

out all the gold coins and items that you have. After
repacking your other items, you walk slowly back-
wards towards the door as the image of Vigdis stares
at you in silence. Feeling fortunate to have escaped
from the Snake Witch with your life, you hurry on up
the corridor, Turn to 323.

40-42
40 .
You follow the cavern wall all the way around until
you arrive back at the staircase which leads up to the
alcove. There doesn’t appear to be any other option
other than to climb it. Turn to 318.

41
You try with all your might to raise your hands to
shield your eyes but find it impossible. Lose 1
STAMINA point. As the pain increases you draw your
sword and try to smash the mirror. Turn to 258.

42
The door opens into a long room that is lined on both
sides with what must be hundreds of hanging swords.
At the far end of the room a man wearing leather
armour is in the middle of a sword fight with a ghostly
figure that is brandishing a real sword. The fighting is
frantic, with the blades clashing noisily against each
other. The man in the leather armour suddenly shouts
out two strange words and the ghostly figure stops
moving, as though frozen to the spot. The man turns
to you and says, “My name is Floresto and I am a
master swordsman. Fight me if you dare and the
winner takes ail!’ If you want to accept the challenge,
turn to 13. If you would rather refuse and walk on up
the corridor, turn to 238.

(-} EJ

43-45

The Troll’s axe is too big and heavy for you to use
so you leave it on the floor. You rummage through
the debris and find 2 Gold Pieces, a silver charm in the
shape of a lion’s head, a broken dagger and a silver
arrow head. After putting the items you want in your
backpack, you leave the room and continue up the
corridor. Turn to 166.

44
You walk along briskly and suddenly you hear the
faint sound of stone grating against stone.

‘Oh, oh!’ Littlebig says. ‘Quick! Flatten yourself against
the wall.’ Four square sections of the ceiling drop to the
floor with a great crashing sound. Test Your Luck. If you
are Lucky, turn to 33. If you are Unlucky, turn to 316.

45
In slow, jerky steps, the Skeletons advance towards

you. Their mouths hang open as if they are screaming
a silent battle cry. Fortunately the corridor is narrow
and you can fight them one at a time.

SKILL STAMINA
First SKELETON 6 5
Second SKELETON 5 6

If you win, turn to 30g.

46-48

46
With strenuous effort Littlebig manages to hack off six
of the spiked horns. Looking pleased with himself, he
places them in his backpack before setting off to look
for a way out of the cave. Turn to 199.

47
You pick up the shovel and commence digging in the

sand pit. Thirty minutes of digging yields an old
wooden chest, a leather-bound book with most of its
pages ripped out, a broken chair, a torn flag bearing the
symbol of a wolf's head and a wooden staff. Will you:

Open the wooden chest? Turn to 327
Open the book? Turn to 165
Strike the staff on the floor? Turn to 198

48

The flying shards of metal shoot past you but
miraculously none hit you. They miss Littlebig too. ‘T
told you we should have left this dump,’ Littlebig says
with a smirk on his face. As you leave the store room
you tell him that you will take his advice next time.
Turn to 346.

E] EJ

49

49

Littlebig can hardly contain himself, such is his excite-
ment as you take the emeralds from your leather
pouch and place them in the eye sockets of the dragon.
They fit perfectly. Then you and Littlebig stand on
either side of the dragon and prepare to lift the heavy
treasure. ‘One, two, three, lift!’ says Littlebig glee
fully. The dragon is very heavy but you manage to lift
it down from its plinth. While you are packing the
dragon inside your backpack, Littlebig looks around
the chamber. Finding nothing of interest, he wanders
back to the plinth and sits down on it. As he does so
you hear a click, and a section of the wall at the back of
the chamber starts to rise up into the ceiling. Daylight
floods into the chamber and it is so bright that it hurts
your eyes. ‘We're free!’ shouts Littlebig excitedly. He
Strides out of the chamber and you follow him out on
to a ledge that is halfway up the side of a rocky hill. A
heavy-set man with a familiar face is standing on the
ledge and smiles as though he was expecting you.
E’s Henry Delacor and you wonder what he is doing
here as you had agreed to meet him back at the Blue
Pig Tavern. ‘Sharcle!’ screams Littlebig with sudden
anger. ‘Why you no good, thieving coward.’

‘How is it?’ replies Henry Delacor, or Sharcle, or who-
ever he really is, still smiling that same insincere smile
that you remember so well. ‘How’s what?’ asks
Littlebig.

“How’s this!’ he says as he pulls out a small crossbow
from under his robes and fires it at Littlebig from short
range. The bolt flies out and hits your friend in the chest

E] Ey

50

with a dull thump. Littlebig staggers back and slumps
to the floor. You run to him but he is bleeding badly.

‘I should have finished him off in his cell, but maybe
he helped you bring the dragon to me. How funny.
Yes, Iam indeed Henry Delacor but my thief friends
know me as Sharcle. Now, if you would just like to
hand over the dragon to me, I will happily give you
the antidote you need for the poison I gave you. Now
that’s what I call a fair deal!’ You stare back at the man
with hatred in your eyes. You have never been so
angry in your life. Your friend lies dying in a pool of
blood. Suddenly you don’t care about the antidote.
All you seek is revenge. You draw your sword and
step forward to attack the lying thief who drops his
crossbow and draws his own sword.

SHARCLE
If you win two Attack Rounds, turn to 400.

SKILL 8 STAMINA 8

50

The lid pops up quite easily and lands with a clatter
on the floor. As you both Jean over to take a peek
inside the barrel, two bloated, hairy JUMPING
SPIDERS spring out of the barrel. One lands on
Littlebig’s long beard and the other lands on your
arm. It scurries up your arm intent on sinking its
poisonous fangs in your neck. Instinctively you try to
brush it off with your hand. Test Your Luck. If you are
Lucky, turn to 118. If you are Unlucky, turn to 392.

51-52
51

As you look into the mirror, your body is gripped by a
terrible pain. Try as you might, you find it impossible
to look away. Lose 2 STAMINA points. If you want to
try to cover your eyes with your hands, turn to 41. If
you would rather try to smash the mirror with your
sword, turn to 258.

52
Holding the moonstone brooch in your outstretched
hand, you walk towards the evil wizard. When he
catches sight of the brooch, the look on his face
suddenly changes from anger to that of fear. He covers
his eyes and starts to scream as though in pain.
He suddenly barges past you and runs down the
passageway, his screams amplified by their echoes
against the stone walls. You turn to go after him but
Littlebig stops you. ‘Let him go. He is of no use to us,’
says Littlebig. ‘And besides we are on a mission and
you cannot afford to be late!” Thinking back to the
Sow-acting poison that you drank in the Blue Pig
Tavern you nod in agreement and continue on up
Se corridor. Turn to 291.

Ci E3

53-55

53
The door opens into a room that is empty apart from

twelve large portraits that line the redwood walls.
There is only one portrait on the far wail, but it is
much larger than the others. It depicts a bearded man
standing proudly in plate armour with his sword in
his right hand and his helmet tucked under his left
arm. Will you:

Take a closer look at the portraits? Turn to 373
Close the door and walk on? Turn to 70
Go back to the door with the green

Square? Turn to 142

54
The corridor scon turns sharply right and you arrive
at a doorway in the left-hand wall. The door is slightly
ajar and through it you can hear a woman’s voice
chanting a strange rhyme. If you want to open the door,
turn to 254. If you would rather carry on walking up
the corridor, turn to 323.

55
The pit is just too wide for you to jump over. Your

fingers catch the edge on the far side, but you are un-
able to hang on and tumble down into the dark depths
to land heavily below. Lose 3 STAMINA points. If you
survive, there is no time to recover as a GIANT SPIDER
scurries out of a dark recess on its long hairy legs,
intent on feasting on your corpse! You are trapped and
must fight.

GIANT SPIDER
If you win, turn to 21.

SKILL 7 STAMINA 8

56-57

56

You sense there is something very strange about the
ald man. He looks as though he is desperate to do
something but is unable to do so. Little do you know
that the armband used to belong to a powerful cleric
who spent his time ridding the world of demons, and
% is protecting you now from a terrible attack by a
Lesser Demon. You ask the old man if he has any
knowledge of the emerald eye but he does not reply.
‘Let's keep moving,’ Littlebig whispers nervously, ‘I
don’t trust this fellow’. If you want to follow the left-
hand passage, turn to 169. If you want to follow the
nght-hand passage, turn to 286. If you would rather
attack the old man, turn to 160.

57
The Witch is now angrier than ever. She starts

mumbling strange words in a low monotone voice
and you watch almost transfixed as her arms elongate
from her body, transforming into snakes! You have no
choice but to fight the hideous Snake Witch.

SNAKE WITCH STAMINA 6

With her venomous snake heads, the Witch has two
attacks to your one. If you are bitten three times, turn
t 352. If you win, turn to 201.

SKILL 10

EJ GJ

58-60

58
When you point the ring in their direction, the
Zombies stop in their tracks. Their mouths open as
if to scream, but no sound comes out. One by one
they turn and shuffle off into the gloom of the
cavern. When they have gone, you notice a leather
pouch on the floor that must have fallen out of
the pocket of one of the Zombies’ tattered clothes. If
you want to open the leather pouch, turn to 287. If you
want to walk on, turn to 376.

59
The dark and musty corridor eventually splits offer-

ing you the choice to go left or right. If you wish to go
left, turn to 250. If you wish to go right, turn to 124.

60

Breathing heavily, and soaked with perspiration, you
slump down on the floor next to Littlebig. His face is
still vacant-looking after his tauma, but after a drink
of water and some warm words of encouragement
from you, he slowly returns to his old self. ‘I can’t
believe that creature could force me to attack you,’ he
says, shaking his head, ‘and how did it manage to
change itself into another me?’ While you are listening
to Littlebig, you notice another small tunnel entrance
in the wall opposite. If you want to continue your
quest and craw] through the new tunnel, turn to 233. If
you would rather search the cavern first, turn to 364.

61-63

61
You are suspicious of the old man and, sensing that
something is not quite right, you keep your eye on
him as you turn the corner. There is an unpleasant
smell of sulphur in the air and that is usually a telltale
sign of evil. You trust your instinct and turn around to
attack the old man. Turn to 160.

62
The pendant you are wearing is a lucky charm. Add 1
tucx point. It also has another magical property: it
will glow brightly if somebody you are talking to is
tying. Feeling pleased with your new treasure, you
leave the room. Turn to 365.

63

For each Flesh Grub that is alive you must again lose 1
STAMINA point as they strip away your skin and
Surrow into your arms. But Littlebig comes to your
rescue and pulls the remaining grubs off you and
stushes them underfoot. ‘Nasty little brutes,’ he says,
while checking the tunic carefully for any remaining
grubs. Turn to 102.

1

—_—
°°
——
_-—__—e
%
{

~>

64-66

64

The room is a disused torture chamber. An iron
maiden lies open on the floor and in the far corer you
see a wooden rack. Old blood-stained instruments of
pain litter the ground. A strong musty smell fills the
still air making you feel a little queasy. Almost hidden
by a pile of chains you see an iron chest. If you want to
open the chest, turn to 131. If you would rather leave
the chamber, turn to 317.

65
You walk along the corridor and soon arrive at a T-
junction. On the stone floor you see chalk arrows
leading up the corridor to your right. If you want to
follow the arrows, turn to 387. If you would rather
turn left, tum to 304.

66

You react too slowly to prevent the rat from biting you.
This is no ordinary rat. You have been bitten by a Fang
Rat that injects strong poison into its prey like a
venomous snake. Lose 1 SKILL point and 4STAMINA
points. If you are still alive, you watch the Fang Rat
pump off your jeg and disappear back into its hole in
the wall. Littlebig grunts and says, ‘Do you know
what? It’s just my gut feeling, but I think we are going
the wrong way. I think we should go the way that
person did a few minutes ago.’ You decide to take
Littlebig’s advice and go back to the corner where the
figure disappeared. Turn to 206.

EF} Ee

67-69
67

The fat man suddenly disappears in a puff of smoke
and is replaced on the floating cushion by a small
brooch made of moonstone. You pin it on to your
tunic wondering what magic it holds. If you have not
done so already you may search the bodies {turn to
299) or leave the cavern (turn to 76).

68

A thorough search of the room reveals nothing more
than a bone charm on a leather cord. There are sym-
bols etched on the charm but neither you nor Littlebig
understand their meaning. If you want to put the
charm around your neck, turn to 324. Otherwise you
can put it in your pocket and either let Littlebig touch
the glass ball with his dagger (turn to 386) or leave the
cellars and return to the corridor above (turn to 355).

The stairs lead down to a gloomy, stone-walled
corridor that is lit by a few flickering torches. In the
dim light you can just see that there is thick slime
dripping down the walls, There is an unpleasant
stench in the air. You hear a scampering noise and
look down to see rats running across the muddy floor
in front of you. Ahead the corridor soon splits at a
junction. If you want to turn left, turn to 186. If you
want to turn right, turn to 88.

70-72
70

A few minutes later you see a message written on the
right-hand wall in large chalk letters. It reads “Go
back or face certain death”. “That message is clear
enough,’ says Littlebig with a grin on his face. ‘So
what should we do?’ If you want to walk on, turn to
209. If you want to turn around and go back, you
may, if you have not done so already, either open the
door with the blue triangle (turn to 53) or open the door
with the green square (turn to 141).

71

You try to look sincere and tell Vigdis that she is
beautiful. Her eyes narrow to slits and she says ina
cold voice, ‘Not only are you a fool you are also a liar,
and a cowardly one at that. I am hideously ugly and
that’s just the way I like it. [hate beauty. Now give me
ail your gold otherwise I will change you into a bat!’
If you want to give Vigdis all your gold, turn to 39. If
you would rather refuse her demand, turn to 268.

72

Holding your breath, you slide the ring slowly on to
the first finger of your right hand, You wait for some-
thing terrible to happen but nothing does. If you have
not done so already, you can break the glass wasp
{turn , 171) or continue walking up the passage (turn
to 291).

EJ] GC]

73-75 76-78

7
Asmall alcove comes into view in the right-hand wall
ef the corridor. The alcove houses a magnificently
Srved wooden chair with the words ‘Rest Ye Well’
sngraved in the seat. If you want to sit on the chair,
=m to 5. If you would rather carry on walking, turn
220.

73
It’s a long drop to the rock floor and you land heavily.
Roll 1 die and reduce your STAMINA by this number.
If you are still alive you may either follow the wall
around the cavern (turn to 40) or have a rest (burn to

314).

74
You grab hold of the rope and walk back with it as far
as you can. Then you run up to the edge of the pit with

77
Bfiraculously all the darts miss you and fly past to
great speed and swing across. Turn to 190.

htt the walls opposite. It occurs to you that all the
blood on the floor is from victims of the darts. You
decide to tum around and open the door behind
you (turn to 277). -

78
4% you run past the Zombies, the one closest to you
amshes out at you with its clawed hand. Test your Luck.
a are Lucky, turn to 164. If you are Unlucky, turn
= 339.

75
This time as you charge Lo Lo Mai the lightning bolt
that shoots from her crystal is much more powerful. It
hits you like a sledgehammer and sends you crashing
into the wall. As everything goes dark, you can just
hear Lo Lo Mai reciting another rhyme.

‘Proud dwarf go now as you're told
Forget your pointless search for gold

I tried to help you with my voice

But your foolish friend left me no choice.’

You hear Littlebig start to argue but then you lose
consciousness. Your adventure is over.

79-80

79

You enter a disused kitchen where the dirty cup-
boards are crammed with broken boxes, old buckets,
cracked bowls and dented cooking utensils. A table
with one leg missing lies upturned next to a pile of
rotten potatoes. Three GIANT RATS are gnawing on
some old leather boots in the far corner and do not
seem to notice you. If you want to leave the kitchen
before you are seen, turn to 336. If you want to fight
the Rats, you can do so one at a time.

SKILL STAMINA
First GIANT RAT 5 4
Second GLANT RAT 5 3
Third GIANT RAT 5 2

Hf you win, turn to 229.

8o

The Ogre’s eyes suddenly open and it jumps up,
grabbing its club. It lets out a fearsome roar and
swings its club at you in anger.

OGRE SKILL 8 STAMINA 10

If you win, turn to 319.

Cy CE)

81-83

81

The Wizard’s blade strikes your arm causing a deep
gash. It’s painful but appears not to be serious. How-
ever, as you lunge forward to counter attack, you feel
unbelievably weak and drop your sword. The Wizard
begins to laugh. “Ha! That will teach you to attack the
mighty Malbus! Your life is draining away thanks to
the evil power of my wyrm sword.’ You try to move
but fall head first to the ground. Your adventure is
over.

82
You have drunk some very strong poison, but luckily
for you it is counteracted by the magic properties of
your turquoise ring. Add 1 LucxK point. The dull pain
quickly disappears and you feel well again. If you
have not done so already, you may either open the
leather bag (turn to 114) or take the sword (turn to
358). Your only other option is to walk on, turn to 212.

83
Exhausted after the long fight, you sit down on the
floor to recover. You watch on in horror as the
Vampire's body crumbles into dust. A bat emerges
from the dust and flies away, carrying with it the
Vampire’s spirit. In two days time the Vampire will
return in human form and will come looking for you
to exact her revenge. Suddenly you notice something
else lying in the pile of dust — a jewel on a gold chain.
The jewel is an emerald but, much to your dis-
appointment, it is square and not at all shaped like a
dragon’s eye. You place it quickly in the black pouch

84

m your pocket and leave the room ina great deal of
excitement. Turn to 116.

84

You tell Littlebig to calm down and remind him
hat you were told by Henry Delacor that both
emerald eyes had to be put into their sockets before
the dragon could be lifted. Littlebig hurls the dagger
at the wall in anger and says, ‘I can't believe we have
come so far and failed, I thought we had searched
every inch of this infernal dungeon, How could we
have missed the emerald? Maybe your friend was
wrong. Let's put one emerald in its socket and lift the
dragon. I'm not going back now,’ The thought of
surning around and going back also fills you with
dread. You take the emerald from its pouch and place
# in its socket. It fits perfectly, Then, standing either
side of the dragon, you and Littlebig get ready to lift it.
Littlebig smiles a says, ‘One, two, three, lift!’ But as
soon as you touch the dragon, you trigger a trap. Over
turty needle-like, poison-tipped ie slicok oui of
any holes in the plinth on which the dragon stands.
Three hit you in one leg and two hit you in the other
eg. Littlebig is hit by nine darts. The poison is deadly
and there is no antidote. You both drop to the floor,
pulling desperately at the darts. But it’s no use.
Although in great pain, Littlebig manages a smile
and, jovial to the end, he says, ‘T hear there is a lost
chest filled with diamonds in the Moonstone Mines.
Let’s go there next...’. He never finishes his sentence
and slumps over. Seconds later, so do you. Your
adventure is over.

[} EJ]

85-87

85
The bronze key turns the lock of the bronze box. It
clicks open and inside you find a polished stone
etched with the words ‘two arrow’. Turn to 227.

86
The scroll is ancient and brittle. You unroll it slowly as
you fear it might crumble into small pieces. The once
white paper is now dark amber with age and the ink
writing has faded badly. in large ancient script you
read the words ‘Hole in the Wali’. Underneath this
heading you read the secret of a magic spell that will
allow you to make a hole in a wall by saying the words
‘Azang Bazang-zang’. You whisper the words to
yourself to remember them and as you do so the scroll
crumbles into dust, its secret gone forever. But you
remember the spell and one day it might save your
life. Now if you have not done so already, you may
pick up the black sword (turn to 345) or examine the
painting (turn to 184). If you would rather climb back
down the rope and walk back down the corridor, turn

to 144.

87
As the Verminspawn gets closer, you feel a surge of
courage. You raise Skullsplitter above your head in

both hands and charge at the vile beast.
VERMINSPAWN

During each Attack Round, you will have two attacks,
one for yourself and one for Littlebig who has a sKILL
of 8. However, the Verminspawn will focus its attacks
on you. If you win, turn to 380.

SKILL 10 STAMINA 10

88-90

88
You turn left into another similar dark corridor. This
passage turns a sharp left and then continues straight
on, soon arriving at a doorway in the right-hand wall.
You press your ear to the large oak door and hear the
sound of somebody humming. If you want to open

the door, turn to 119, If you would rather walk on,
turn to 236.

89

The soup is a thick, tasty vegetable broth that is very
sourishing. You share it with Littlebig who slurps it
Gown enthusiastically, wiping his bearded, dribbling
mouth with the back of his hand before letting out a
rather noisy and crude belch. ‘That's good!’ he says
Seaming. ‘I wonder who made it?’ Add 1 STAMINA
point. If you have not done so already, you may read
the sheets of paper (turn to 240). Otherwise you can
epen the door opposite (turn to 312).

go
Your strength slowly starts to drain away, but you do
mot know it is due to the helmet. Lose 5 sTAMINA
points. If you are still alive, Test your Luck. If you are
Socky, turn to 222. If you are Unlucky, turn to 385.

Cd EB

91-94
91

You sense something strange about the old man and
watch him carefully as you turn the corner to walk
past him. Although you did not know it, the armband
used to belong to a powerful cleric who spent his time
ridding the world of demons. Had the armband not
protected you, the little old man might not have been
so harmless as he appeared. You hurry on until the old
man is out of sight. Turn to 169.

92
With your sword in hand, you run down the corridor
and turn the corner. A short distance ahead, the
corridor ends at a T-junction where you see the person
turn right and disappear again. As you approach the
junction you see a white symbol on the wall ahead.
Turn to 308.

93
There is nothing you can do to stop the blade piercing
your throat. You sink to your knees slowly as the
blood pours from the deep wound. Your adventure is
Over.

94
During all the commotion in the last room, you didn’t
notice that a small hole was made in your backpack
by Floresto’s sword. You also did not realize that
something fell out. Lose 1 item from your Adventu
Sheet. Oblivious to the loss, you walk on. Turn fo 238.

95-96

95
As you start to speak, you hear the noise of fluttering
wings above you. Looking up, you just have time
to draw your sword to defend yourself against the
two large VAMPIRE BATS that are swooping down to
attack you. Fight them one at a time.

SKILL STAMINA
First VAMPIRE BAT 5 4
Second VAMPIRE BAT 5 4

While you are fighting the first Vampire Bat, the
second will cling to your neck to suck your blood. You
must lose 1 STAMINA point per Attack Round until
you are able to fight it. If you win, turn to 241.

gb

The Evil Wizard stops muttering when he sees the pile
sf Gold Pieces cupped in your hands. He raises one of
his eyebrows and looks at you suspiciously. ‘I don’t
Ske this,’ Littlebig whispers nervously, Suddenly the
Evil Wizard bursts out laughing and says, ‘Ah, a
peace offering from a grovelling little toad. Thank
you, I'll take your gold. Now here’s my gift to you!’ He
faises his arms and mutters a spell to release another
freball at you from point blank range. Reduce your
total of Gold Pieces to zero and roll two dice. If the
mamber rolled is less than or equal to your sKILL
score, turn to 267. If the number rolled is greater than
wour SKILL, turn to 216.

Cc) Ee

97-98

97
Convinced that the dwarf you are about to fight is

not Littlebig but a Doppelganger imitating him, you
wield your sword in a frenzied attack. Suddenly the
dwarf starts to metamorphose into a hideous creature
some two metres tall with large scarlet scales covering
its massive chest and an oversized, pulsating skull. Its
eyes are large and red-veined, and its mouth is small
but crammed with long needle-like fangs. There is no
doubting who the DOPPELGANGERR is now.

DOPPELGANGER SKILL10 STAMINA 10

During each Attack Round you must reduce your
SKILL by 2 as you must use all your mental strength
to fight the mental powers of the creature. Meanwhile,
Littlebig manages to break free from the Doppel-
ganger’s mind control but is too exhausted and
drained to help you in combat. If you win, turn to 60.

98
You continue along the dimly lit corridor until you
come to another doorway in the left-hand wall. The
door is unlocked. If you want to open the door, turn
t 167. If you want to carry on without further delay,
turn to 151.

99-100

99

Running along after the hooded figure, you do not see
two more dark-robed figures hiding in the shadows of
a small aleove. As you run past them, one thrusts a
wooden staff at your legs, tripping you and sending
you crashing to the floor. In an instant they are on top
of you, punching and kicking as hard as they can.
Lose 1 STAMINA point. You manage to free an arm to
land a few blows yourself and stand up to fight the
THIEVES one at a time.

SKILL STAMINA
First THIEF 6 6
Second THIEF 7 5
If you win, turn to 382.

100
You tell Vigdis that she is disgustingly ugly. She
smiles and says, “Thank you. Nobody has paid me
such a compliment in years. You are obviously a
person of great taste, You are free to go. And please
take the wooden box from the shelf in the comer of the
room, as a token of my appreciation.’ As you leave
the room, you take a peek inside the box and find a
few garlic cloves, 7 Gold Pieces, a large tooth and
a bronze key with the number 85 stamped on it. You
pack the items away and carry on up the corridor.
Turn to 323.

101

101
As you put your hand slowly into the hole, Litdebig
shakes his head and tells you that you must be mad.
You half expect to feel terrible pain as some unseen
qeature bites your hand off, but nothing happens.
You reach further into the hole until your shoulder is
pressed hard against the wall and your fingertips
touch something that feels soft. Your immediate
thought is that it is a rat and you withdraw your arm
quickly. But convincing yourself that it is not a rat you
seach back into the hole and pull out what turns out to
be an old sock! Inside the sock you find 3 Gold Pieces,
a small silver cross and a wavy-bladed knife. ‘Some
people have all the luck!’ Littlebig says shaking his
bead. ‘That's no ordinary knife, that’s a kris knife.
They are made by the demon priests of the abyss.
Their blades are forged in cursed flames and are
the only blades that can pierce the skin of a Lesser
Demon.’ You place the unholy knife in your belt,
pocket the other findings and walk on. Turn to 354.
102-103
102

Satisfied that there are no more grubs hidden in the
warrior’s tunic, you decide what to do. Will you:

Open the leather bag? Turn to 114
Uncork the silver flask? Turn to 245
Take the sword? Tum to 358
Leave everything and walk on? Turn to 212

103

The laughter gets louder and louder but you cannot
tell where it is coming from as it echoes around the
room, It turns into a piercing shriek which is painful to

your ears, You begin to lose your sense af balance and

fall over feeling violently ill. The door through which
you entered the room slams shut, trapping you inside.
Using all your energy, you just manage to crawl ove
to the footmarks and haul yourself up to stand on
them. There is a sudden blinding flash and it seems
though the room is spinning. You are unable to stop
yourself from passing out. Turn to 215.

104-105
104

You both heave on the door with all your might. It
opens slowly, with its hinges squeaking noisily in
protest. You find yourself in a cold, dark room that
has a marble plinth in the middle. On top of the plinth
s a large ball made of green glass. Littlebig walks up
to it but you warn him against touching it in case it’s a
trap. ‘I think there is something inside the glass bail,’
he says, peering closely at it. ‘I’m just going to touch it .
with my dagger.’ Will you:

Let Littlebig touch the glass ball? Turn to 386
Leave the cellars and return to the

corridor above? Turn to 355
Look for something else in the room? Turn to 68

105
Scratched, bruised and battered, you land with a
thump at the bottom of a dark pit. There is no time to
recover as a GIANT SPIDER scurries out of a dark
Tecess on its long hairy legs, intent on feasting on your
corpse. You are trapped and must fight.

GLANT SPIDER

If you win, tun to 21.

SKILL 7 STAMINA 8

106—108

106
With nervous anticipation you take hold of the sword
in both hands and begin to pull. It does not move, so
you put one leg up against the wall and pull harder.
Turn to 38.

107
The Vampire sneers at you contemptuously as you
swing your sword at her. Normal weapons are almost
ineffective against the undead! But there is no alterna-
tive now but to fight.

VAMPIRE

if you defeat the Vampire, turn to 83. If you wish to try
to Escape, which you may only do after 6 Attack
Rounds, you will have to Test your Luck. If you are
Lucky, you may Escape through the door, turn to 216,
If you are Unlucky, you must fight on to the death,

SKILL 10 STAMINA 12

108
There is a new passageway in the left-hand wall that
you see some fifty metres ahead. A hooded figure
wearing dark robes suddenly appears from around
the comer carrying a black sack over his shoulder. In
his right hand you see a long dagger. The figure
catches sight of you, stops in his tracks, turns and

109-110
runs back from where he came. ‘Hey! Come back!’
Littlebig shouts. His cries echo down the corridor
but the hooded figure does not return. You decide to
give chase and turn left down the new corridor. Turn
to 224.

tag

‘That’s very interesting,’ says the wizard after hearing
vour tale. ‘I admire your spirit and I’m going to help
vou. Here is a little gift for you. Good luck.’ There is a
sudden flash of light and a wooden box appears in the
centre of the room. Inside the box you find a gold key
with the number 325 stamped on the barrel. You place
it in your pocket and leave the room. Turn to 65.

110

After Lo Lo Mai has been paid her 10 Gold Pieces, she
walks over to the door and opens it for you, gesturing
for you to walk through it. In the circumstances, you
think that this offer is the best you can hope for. Turn
to 396.

111-112

114
As you open the door, a horrible stench fills your
nostrils, You enter a large, dirty cavern, the floor of
which is covered with rotten food, old bones, insects
and leaking buckets of foul green liquid. Sitting at a
roughly-made wooden table are two ugly brutes with
warty brown-green skin. They look disgusting and
smell like they have never washed in their lives. They
are grunting and slavering as they stuff their large
fnged mouths with what looks like intestines and
rats’ heads. There is no doubt about it, they are ORCS.
But these are not ordinary Orcs. These two are tall,
powerful and extremely violent Uglukk Orcs. They
turn to look at you and belch in contempt. Black
greasy drool runs down their chins, which they wipe
with the back of their enormous hands. Pushing the
table away, one of them rises slowly and reaches for
ms large morning star. The other grabs its heavy club
but stays seated to watch the fight. The first Orc lets
out a deafening roar and strides towards you. This
will be a fearsome fight to the death.

UGLUKK ORC SKILL 8 STAMINA 8
if you win, turn to 285.

112
Further up the passageway you see another door on
the right-hand wall. You listen at the door and hear
scratching sounds coming from the other side. If you
want to enter the room, turn to 79. If you wish to carry
on walking up the passageway, turn to 336.

Ee] E2

113-115

113

You find a velvet bag concealed inside the Evil
Wizard’s robes. Inside the bag you find 5 Gold Pieces,
a gold ring with a large turquoise stone set in it anda
small wasp made of coloured glass. You pocket the
Gold Pieces and say to Littlebig, ‘Do you think this is a
magic ring?’ Littlebig frowns and says, ‘I’m sure it is
but I have no idea what it does. Maybe if you put it on
we'll be attacked by a swarm of wasps! You can’t
expect a nice gift from an Evil Wizard.’

If you want to try on the ring, turn to 72.

If you want to break the glass wasp, turn to 171.

If you would rather leave the items and continue
walking up the passage, turn to 291.

114

The bag contains: 2 Gold Pieces, a small copper bowl,
a long tooth, a scroll, a wooden catapult and three lead
balls. You decide to keep the gold and the catapult.
If you want to look at the scroll, turn to 16. If you
would rather not look at it, you may, if you have not
done so already, uncork the flask (turn to 245) or take
the sword (turn to 358). The only other choice is to
disregard the items and walk on, turn to 212.

115
You feel groggy and extremely weak as the snake’s
venom spreads through your body. You lie down on
the floor and start to tremble uncontrollably. Sweat
pours from your brow. Standing over you, the Witch
starts to laugh manically. The poison acts fast and
everything goes black. Your adventure is over.

116-118

116

You walk hastily up the corridor and see an iron gate
m the right-hand wall. Through the bars you can see a
room which is painted entirely green. Even the tables
and chairs are painted green. The room is filled with
hundreds of tall plants, which give off an unpleasant
smell. If you want to open the gate and enter the room,
fu to 343. If you would rather keep on walking up
the corridor, turn to 142.

117
After removing the stopper you see that the bottle
contains a clear liquid. You sniff the bottle and smell
something that reminds you of almonds. If you want
to drink the liquid, turn to 328. If you would rather
leave it and walk on, turn to 376.

118

The spider drops to the floor and, before it can jump
up again, you stamp down on its bloated abdomen
with your foot to make a green sticky mess on the
floor. You are pleased to see that Littlebig has also
squashed the spider that attacked him. He stands on
his tiptoes, leans over the edge of the barrel and
reaches down. First, he throws out a good length of
rope that you decide to keep. Then he pulls himself
back out again, huffing and puffing, clutching a red
clay doll that has copper nails sticking out of its head
like hair. ‘I wonder what this is?’ he asks, handing it to
you. If you want to drop the doll on to the floor to break
it, turn to 19. If you would rather toss it back in the
barrel and walk back down the corridor, turn to 234.

C] EJ

119-122

119
The door opens and you are surprised to see what
looks to be a small art gallery. The walls are almost
totally covered with paintings of animals and birds. In
the middle of the room an old man is busily painting a
picture of a wolf on a large canvas and he is oblivious
to the fact that you have come in. He just stands there
humming happily to himself while he works. If you
want to talk to the artist, turn to 196. If you think he
is a danger and want to attack him, turn to 348. If
you would rather leave him alone and return to the
corridor, turn to 236. 1

120

The cave wall is almost vertical, but there are plenty of
cracks and rock outcrops to use as hand and foot
holds. Nevertheless, it’s going to be a difficult climb
down. Roll two dice. If the number rolled is the same
or less than your current SKILL score, turn to 305. If
the number rolled is greater than your SKILL score,
furn to 137.

121
The helmet does indeed have magical properties, but
not the kind you were hoping for. It has been cursed
by an evil sorcerer and drains the life out of anybody
who wears it without them even knowing it. If you are
wearing a snake’s head necklace, turn to 331. If you
are not wearing this necklace, turn to go.

122
If you are wearing a silver armband, turn to 342. If you
are not wearing a silver armband, turn to 61.

123-124
123

In the safety of the den, you relax and share tales of
adventure with Littlebig over plates piled high with
delicious food. When you can eat no more, you flop on
to your bed and sink into a deep sleep, dreaming, as
always, of the golden dragon. Many hours later
you wake feeling strong and filled with energy. Add
4S5TAMINA points. Littlebig is already sitting at the
table eating another plateful of food. ‘I wonder if it is
breakfast or dinner time?’ he asks with his cheeks
bulging. ‘I’ve completely lost track of time in this
dungeon, so I’m having breakfast and dinner!’ All you
can manage at this point is an apple that you eat
whilst having a good look around the den. A wooden
box that has been tucked under one of the beds looks
mitriguing. You pull it out and open it to find part of an
old hand-drawn map of a dungeon. It shows a section
of corridor that ends at a junction where a white star is
marked in chalk on the wall. An arrow pointing to the
right-hand corridor has the word ‘life’ written under-
neath it and an arrow pointing to the left-hand corridor
has the word ‘death’ written undemeath it. You fold
the map, place it in your pocket and tell Littlebig it’s
time to go. Leaving the den you turn left. Turn to 330.

124
The corridor makes a sharp turn to the right and once
around the bend you are forced to stop at a deep pit. A
rope hangs down from the ceiling over the centre of
the pit, which you can just reach with your sword.
If you want to try to swing over the pit on the rope,
tum to 74. If you would rather try to jump over the
pit, turn to 306.

[} Ey

125-126

125
Although the Hanging Snake is quick to strike, you
are quicker. Your sword cuts through the air and lops
off the tail end of the snake. You slide down until you
reach the severed tail. It is only a two-metre jump
down to the floor, and Littlebig stands beneath you to
help break your fall. The wounded snake slowly rises
mito the ceiling to recover in its lair. You may now
have a rest (turn to 314) or follow the wall around the
cavern (turn to 40).

126

With your weapons at the ready, you tread carefully
along the passageway. You can hardly see a metre in
front of you in the thick, swirling mist, but you hear
something that sounds like shuffling feet coming
towards you. Littlebig raises his arm as a sign for you
> stop walking. The shuffling sounds grow louder
anil a horrific-looking creature steps into view. It is a
large, muscular humanoid that has a hunchback and
am oversized head. Drool pours out of its gaping
mouth that houses large broken teeth. It is its large
smgle eye that makes it instantly recognizable.
Raising its massive battleaxe above its head, the grue-
some CYCLOPS strides forward to attack.

CYCLOPS SKILL 9 STAMINA 9

EK you win, turn to 200.

127-129
127

Using your sword to poke around the debris on the
floor, you find 2 Gold Pieces, a silver armband and a
dark blue glass bottle with a cork in it. The rotten
smell in the cavern is almost unbearable and you must
decide what to do. If you want to uncork the bottle,
turn to 149. If you have not done so already, you can
search the bodies, turn to 299. If you want to leave the
stinking cavern immediately, turn to 76.

Confident that you have made the right choice, you
step forward to pull the sword from the wall. Turn to
18s.

129
You pick up the card and it springs out of your hand
landing back on the floor. There is a sudden flash of
blinding light. The card disappears and standing
before you, from out of nowhere, is an old woman
dressed as the Queen of Spades. She smiles and says,
‘Thank you so much. Here are 5 Gold Pieces for your
trouble.’ She hands you the gold before walking
slowly and elegantly out of the room. Still somewhat
puzzled, you put the coins in your backpack and
continue your quest. Turn to 112.

130
The walls grind steadily on until no more than a
metre separates them. You try wedging your swords
between them but they snap like twigs under the
pressure. There is no stopping the force that is driving
the walls together. Moments later a terrible end befalls
you as the walls connect. Your adventure ends here.

131

The chest lid is very heavy and you struggle to lift it.
Inside you find 5 Gold Pieces, a small silver box and a
strange, bronze-handled dagger with a blade made of
opaque crystal. After taking what you want, you leave
the chamber and continue up the corridor. Turn to 317.

132
The fireball crashes into your chest and you are
engulfed by flame. Littlebig is unable to help as the
flames surround your body. As you begin to lose con-
sciousness you see him hurled to the floor as another
freball successfully hits its target. Your adventure is
over.

133

Lving still on the floor, the lifeless Gigantus once more
resembles a boulder. Littlebig crouches down by its
head and says, ‘I’m told these spiked horns can pierce
anything, even rock. They could be very useful.
Maybe I should break off a few of them and put them
m my backpack?’ If you want to let Littlebig chop off
the horns, turn to 46. If you would rather dissuade
him from doing so and continue looking for a way out
of the cave, turn to 199.

Ed CJ

134-135
134

coming from the other side. It sounds like a
chuckling to himself. If you
turn to 374. If you would rather

:
:

135
As you step down the ladder it gets darker and darker
until you can hardly see your own hands on the
rungs. Looking up you can just about see Littlebig’s
round face beaming down at you. Down and down
you go until your foot hits the floor. Suddenly you feel
something crawling up your leg and then you feel lots
of things crawling all over you. You feel a sting in
your leg and another in your arm. You panic and try to
brush the unseen attackers off your body. But there
are literally hundreds of large scorpions and spiders
at the bottom of the pit and they are all in a state of
frenzy. There is nothing you can do but try to climb
back up the ladder. Roll two dice. This is the number
of STAMINA points you must lose due to poisonous
stings and bites. If you are still alive, you just manage
to crawl out of the pit with the help of Littlebig. If you
possess Stinger Leaves, turn to 247. If you do not have
any, you may either walk on (turn to 4) or walk back to
the staircase in the cavern wall (turn to 318).

136-137

136
You soon arrive at another alcove in the left-hand
wall. Inside it you see a stone throne, carved as though
it has been made out of a hundred open-mouthed
skulls. If you want to sit on the throne, turn to 170. If
you would rather carry on walking up the corridor,
turn to 9.

137
You manage to climb down roughly five metres when
the rock outcrop that you are standing on breaks off.
You lose your footing and are left dangling helplessly
Sy one hand, Rock fragments clatter down the side of
the wall and land noisily on the floor some six metres
below. Your heart starts to beat faster when you see
the dragon stir. It opens one giant eye and looks
around its lair, spotting you immediately, You have
no choice but to jump down and face the dragon.
You twist your ankle on landing and lose 1 sTAMINA
point.
BLACK DRAGON SKILL 14

The dragon will concentrate its attack on you, but
you will have two strikes each Attack Round, one
Attack Round you must Test your Luck to see if you are
saught within the cloud of poisonous gas that the
Sragon blows at you. If you are Lucky, it misses. If you
we Unlucky, lose 457A MINA points. If somehow you
manage to defeat the mighty dragon, turn to 337.

STAMINA 18

CJ EJ

138-139

138

Holding the lion charm in your outstretched hand,
you advance towards the Wizard. When he catches
sight of the charm, the Wizard begins to roar with
laughter. ‘Oh you pathetic weasel,’ he snorts. ‘What
harm do you think you are going to do to me with that
piece of junk?’ He raises his arms and mutters a spell
to release another fireball at you from point blank
range. Roll two dice. If the number rolled is less than
or equal to your SKILL score, tur to 267. If the
number rolled is greater than your SKILL, turn to 216.

139

The corridor eventually comes to an end at a solid oak
door. You try the handle and are surprised to find that
it is unlocked. Slowly, you open the door into a dark
room. The only light inside comes from a burning
candle on a shelf on the far wall. Something else on
the shelf also catches your eye as it sparkles in the
candlelight. If you want to examine the sparkling
object, turn to 38. If you would rather close the door
and walk back down the corridor, turn to 365.

140-141

140
Inside the bag you find a small bronze statuette of a
monkey with its hand covering its eyes. After
deciding whether or not to keep the statuette, you set
off again. If you want to go down the left-hand
passage, turn to 169. If you want to go down the right-
hand passage, turn to 286.

141
The door opens into a dark and dingy room that is
covered from ceiling to floor in thick cobwebs. There
doesn’t appear to be anything of interest in the room.
Lf you want to cut through the cobwebs and search the
room, turn to 257. If you want to leave the room, you
may either open the door with the blue triangle (turn
to 53) or walk on up the corridor (turn to 70).

142-143

142
58 Ahead in the corridor you see a stone archway, its
Sa OO dl eee centre stone is carved in the shape of a skull. There is a

arrrta
(’" y

second archway another twenty metres beyond the
first and there are two alcoves in between. Standing
motionless in the alcoves are two tall skeletons armed
with swords, helmets and shields. With your sword
drawn you step slowly under the first archway. As you
do so the skeletons’ heads crane towards you. If
you want to try to run past them, turn to 403. If you
would rather stand and fight, turn to 45.

143

While you are cutting through the warrior’s belt to
take the leather bag, you feel a sharp pain in your
right hand. In the gloom of the corridor you hadn’t
noticed that the warrior’s tunic was riddled with fat,
magegot-like, flesh-eating worms. Although blind, the
acute sense of smell of a FLESH GRUB enables it to
target its prey and sink its barbed teeth into exposed
Hesh. Although these vicious grubs can be pulled off
and crushed easily, the number that attack can be a
problem. Roll one die and add 6 to the total. This is the
number of Flesh Grubs that crawl on to you. Roll two
dice to decide how many you kill. If this total is less
than the number of Flesh Grubs, turn to 271. If the
<otal is the same or greater than the number of Flesh
Grubs, turn to 102.

E} EJ

144-146

144

You are soon back at the sand pit and tum left to
arrive at a junction in the corridor. While contem-
plating which way to go you notice three silver coins
on the floor almost hidden in shadow. You pick them
up and put them in your pocket. Having walked up
the passageway to your left, you now choose to walk
straight on. Turn to 304.

145
You play your favourite tune on the tin whistle but

the Ghost continues to attack Littlebig. The Ghost’s
sword flashes through the air and it is all Littlebig can
do to defend himself. ‘Stop playing that silly whistle
and come and help me,’ he shouts. If you have a
Golden Orb and want to try that, turn to 347. If you
would rather attack the Ghost, turn to 27.

146

A search of the room reveals nothing of interest and
so you decide to search the Goblin. You landed some
mighty blows on its chest during the battle, which
seemed to have little effect on the Goblin. You
discover that it is wearing a chain-mail coat under its
clothing. It is made of a strange, blue-grey metal and
you decide to put it on. Add 1 SKILL point. You leave
the room and continue up the corridor. Turn to 173.

é

147-149

147

You rummage through the Mercenary’s pockets and
find: 2 Gold Pieces, a fish hock, a small brass bell
and three copper buttons. A search of the Uglukk
Ore’s clothing reveals nothing but maggots and lice.
The unbearable smell of the cavern is beginning to
make you feel sick so you decide to leave without
further delay. Turn to 76.

148
At the back of the room you find a large wooden box
set against the wall that was hidden from view by the
cobwebs. Littlebig looks at it closely in case it has
been set as a trap. ‘It doesn't look like a trap to me,’ he
says confidently. If you want to open the box, turn to
289. If you would rather move the box away from the .
wall, turn to 326.

149
As you uncork the bottle, wisps of shimmering white
smoke escape and begin to take the shape of a man.
Sitting in mid-air, on a floating silk cushion, is a short
fat man with his arms folded and a turban on his head.
He is semi-transparent and you can see through
him. He smiles at you and says, ‘Did you know that
I have been stuck in that infernal bottle for over two
hundred years? I cannot tell you how pleased and
grateful I am to be free. I should never have trusted
those tricksters. Bah! Now how can I help you, young
adventurer? Would you like some gold pieces (turn to
252) or a little magic item (turn to 67)?’

LC] CJ

150-151

150

The water has a metallic taste but is nevertheless quite
refreshing. Add 1 STAMINA point. Strangely, your
eyesight seems to have improved. Everything appears
sharper and you can see further into the gloom.
Littlebig also drinks the water and is overjoyed with
his improved vision. ‘Things are looking up,’ he says
setting off again. Turn to 301.

151

Back in the corridor you arrive at another doorway
in the left-hand wall. You press your ear against the
wooden door and hear the sound of a woman’s voice
crying for help. If you want to enter the room, turn to
225. If you want to ignore the cries and walk on, tum
to 116.

152-153
152

You are exhausted after the fight and sit down to get
your breath back. Meanwhile, Littlebig starts inspect-
ing ail the swords. But as scon as he touches one of
them the ghostly figure moves again and starts to
attack Littlebig. You run to his aid, but at the same
time wonder how you can defeat a GHOST. If only
you could remember the two words that Floresto
used. But you can’t, so you must decide quickly what
w do. If you want to try one of your items against
the Ghost, turn to 187. If you would rather attack the
Ghost, turn to 27.

153

The deep voice continues, slowly saying, ‘I’m so
grateful that you have decided to stay, my friend, as
Iam very lonely and in much need of conversation. I
am a wizard trapped in another dimension. Don’t ask
me how I got here as it’s a long story, and not a
particularly nice story either. Anyway, what brings
vou to this evil place?’ If you want to tell the wizard
about your quest for the golden dragon, turn to 109.
K you would rather make a polite excuse and leave the
room, turn to 264.

Ce] Ee]

154-156

454

The whispering voice continues to call to you as you
reach the door and turn the handle. You enter the
room cautiously and see that it is small and empty,
apart from a marble plinth in the centre of a marble
floor. On top of the plinth sits a highly varnished
black box from which the voice appears to be coming.
If you want to open the box, turn to 25. If you would
rather leave the room and walk towards the opposite
door, turn to 284.

155

As you walk back to the rope ladder, you stumble
over something on the floor. You reach down and pick
up a heavy shield. You sling it over your shoulder and
climb back up the ladder on to the bridge. In the dim
light of the corridor you see that the shield is etched
with strange runes around its edge, and it has been
polished so much that you can see your own reflection
in it. You feel it was worth fighting the Ghoul after all
to get such a magnificent shield and set off down the
corridor. Turn to 193.

156

The corridor turns sharply right and around the
comer you see an iron lever set in the left-hand walL
Littlebig looks at it carefully but does not touch it.
‘Could be a trap,’ he says, again stating the obvious in
his now familiar way. If you want to pull down on the
handle, turn to 366. If you would rather just keep
walking, turn to 44.

157-159

157
You close both hands around the shaft of the arrow
and pull on it as hard as you can. The arrowhead
remains firmly embedded in the rock wall. You try
again but you are unable to move it. Turn to 38.

158

You say hello to the old woman and yet she still does
mot turn around to look at you. You decide to walk up
#0 her and tap her on the shoulder. Suddenly she spins
around. Her eyes are wide open with glee and an evil,
hysterical laugh erupts from her mouth. Close up you
motice that she has tiny snakes in her hair and realize
im horror that she must be a MEDUSA. You try to
avoid her staring eyes by looking away as you know
her gaze is deadly. Roll two dice. If the total is the
same or less than your SKILL, you avoid her stare. If
you are carrying a piece of broken mirror you may be
able to reflect her stare back at her, turn to 210. If you
do not have this item, you can run out of the room,
turn to 281. If the total is greater than your SKILL you
catch sight of her deadly gaze, turn to 377.

159
if you have any keys, turn to 276. If you do not have

any keys, turn to 259.

160-161

160

Littlebig frowns and says, ‘I’ve got a feeling that this is
not such a good idea.” But you ignore his words and
run at the old man with your sword raised. You are
almost within striking distance when the old man
leaps up and instantly metamorphoses into a horrific
beast almost three metres high and covered in scaly
black skin. Steam hisses from its nostrils and a terrible
stench of foul breath blows out of its fanged mouth. It
has a large head with long horns curving out of the
top. Its hands end in hooked claws. It has cloven
hooves and a long, lashing tail. You are face to face
with a raging HELL DEMON and you realize that
your sword will cause it no harm. It fends off your
blow with ease and strikes back with its iron-like
claws. Lose 2 STAMINA points. You reel back from
the blow and hear Littlebig shouting something from
behind you. You just catch the words ‘wavy blade’
and they puzzle you. Suddenly the words make sense.
if you have a kris knife, tum to 195. If you do not have
this knife, turn to 371.

161

In the heat of battle you suddenly notice that some-
body else has entered the room. It is a huge bearded
man, wearing thick leather armour reinforced with
Steel shoulder pads. ‘Pay me 10 Gold Pieces and I will
help you,’ he growls in a deep voice. If you want to
agree to the Mercenary’s demands, turn to 334. If you
would rather tell him that you do not need his help,
turn to 213.

fe] fd

162-164

162
Lo Lo Mai’s pleasant smile disappears from her face
and in a stern voice she says,

“Your words are false, that I know,
It's your mistake, now you must go.’

She walks quickly over to the door opposite and opens
it, gesturing for you to walk through. Something tells
you that it would be foolish to disobey her, so you do
as she says. Turn to 396.

163

While their evil power and near-immortality make
Vampires very difficult to kill, silver weapons can
harm them. You plunge the dagger into her chest and
watch on in amazement as her body crumbles into
_ dust. A bat emerges from the dust and flies away,
- carrying with it the Vampire’s spirit. In two days time
the Vampire will return in human form and will come
looking for you to exact her revenge. Suddenly you
notice something else lying in the pile of dust — a jewel
on a gold chain. The jewel is an emerald, but, much to
your disappointment, it is square and not shaped like
a dragon’s eye at all. You place it quickly in the black
pouch in your pocket and leave the room in a great
deal of excitement. Turn to 116.

164
You swerve around the clawed hand of the Zombie
and run off into the gloom of the cavern. The lumber-
ing Zombies are soon left far behind. Turn to 376.

165-166

165

The few pages remaining in the old book are yellow
and brittle. The ink writing on them is very faded and
almost illegible, but on the last page there is a rhyme
which looks to have been written in blood. If you
want to read the rhyme, turn to 260. Alternatively, if
you have not done so already, you may either open
the wooden chest (turn to 327) or strike the staff on the
floor (turn to 198). You may also walk on and follow
the arrows along the corridor, turn to 248.

166

The corridor is long and narrow with just the
occasional burning torch on the wall to light the way.
You walk along slowly, ever alert to potential danger.
A rat suddenly scurries across the damp floor before
disappearing into a hole in the wall. On and on you
walk, until you hear the sound of flowing water in the
distance. The corridor eventually ends at the bank of a
fast-flowing underground river. A crudely made raft
5 tied to a stake in the bank. If you want to climb on to
the raft and float downstream, turn to 188. If you
would rather retrace your steps and walk back to the
last junction, turn to 398.

167-169

167

The door opens into a marble-floored room in the
middle of which stands an ornate stone table. Two
shining breastplates lie on top of the table, one is made
of bronze and the other is made of iron. If you want to
try on the bronze breastplate, turn to 3. If want to try
on the iron breastplate, turn to 37. If you do not wish
to try on either, you leave the room and continue up
the corridor. Turn to 151.

168
You rummage frantically through your backpack in a
desperate search for the healing potion. Finally you
find it just in time as you begin to feel weak. You gulp
down all of the potion and sit down on the floor to rest
for a while. You soon feel better and well enough to
continue. Turn to 148.

169

Littlebig notices something on the floor and runs
ahead to investigate. It’s a large stone chest some two
metres long with a very heavy-looking lid. ‘Funny
place to leave this,’ Littlebig says, stating the blind-
ingly obvious. ‘I wonder what's inside?’ If you want
to try to lift the lid off the chest, turn to 35. If you
would rather walk on, turn to 156.

170-171

170
Sensing a trap, you sit down very slowly on the chair.
You think you hear the sound of wailing voices but
realize it’s just your imagination. Suddenly, a feeling
of incredible power surges through your body. You
are sitting on a chair of life. Add 1 SKILL point and 1
STAMINA point. Feeling strong, you leap out of the
chair and stride up the corridor, turn to 9.

171

You drop the glass wasp on the stone floor but it
doesn’t break. You stamp on it with your foot but still
it doesn’t break. You even try smashing it with the hilt
of your sword but that does not work. ‘Give it to me,’
says Littlebig. ‘I’m going to keep it. It might be a lucky
charm after all.” You toss it over to him and decide
what to do. If you have not done so already, you may
try on the ring (turn to 72) or continue walking up the
passage (turn to 291).

172-173
172

As the Verminspawn gets closer, you feel almost

paralysed by fear, and looking at the insects and grubs

crawling over its loathsome torso makes you feel sick.

It is all you can do to raise your sword to fight. But

fight you must.

VERMINSPAWN

During this combat, you must reduce your SKILL by 3
because of your fear. Littlebig is unable to move at all
and stands motionless with his mouth wide open. If
somehow you manage to win, turn to 380.

SKILL 10 STAMINA 10

173
The dank and gloomy corridor finally ends at a
doorway. As you are deciding whether or not to open
it, you hear a noise like that of grating metal followed
by the loud clang of metal hitting stone. You look
around to see that your way back is barred by an iron
bar gate that has dropped down from the ceiling. You
have no choice but to turn the door handle. You find
yourself in a marble-floored room. The room is empty
but there are a pair of golden footprints in a silver
circle on the floor. A sign on the wall says ‘Please
stand on the footprints’. From out of nowhere you

174-175

hear the sound of thunder followed by a loud evil
laugh. If you want to stand on the footprints, turn to
302. If you want to wait and see if the owner of the evil
laugh will appear, turn to 103.

174
One of the pointed darts sinks into your thigh. As you
reach down to pull it out you begin to feel very dizzy.
The tips of the darts have been coated with deadly
poison by a gang of dungeon looters. It will not be
long before they return to rob your lifeless body of all
your treasure. Your adventure ends here.

175
All of the magic keys have a number stamped on

them. To open a box, turn to the paragraph number
that is stamped on the key you wish to try first. If you
are unable to do this, you will just have to guess which
weapon to choose. Turn to 390.

176-179

176
You enter a room that is painted white which contains
white furniture and objects. In a corner of the room,
standing on a white marble column, you see a cat made
of white porcelain that has jewelled eyes. If you want
to take a closer look at the cat, tum to 383. If you
would rather leave the room straight away, turn to 204.

177
If you have any of the following magic items, you may
choose to use one now.

Lion Charm. Turn to 138
Moonstone Brooch. Turn to 52
Staff of Thunder. Turn to 333

If you do not have any of these items you can either
attack the Evil Wizard with your sword (turn to 320)
or offer him some Gold Pieces (turn to 96).

178

As you draw your sword from the body of the last
Zombie, you look around to see that Littlebig has
already despatched his two Zombies and is rum-
maging through their pockets. He finds a leather
pouch, which he hands to you. If you want to open
the pouch, turn to 287. If you would rather walk on,
turn to 376.

£79
As you plummet down the chute, your head bangs
against a stone outcrop. Lose 3 STAMINA points. If
you are still alive, turn to 105.

Ey

180-182

180

The Hell Demon swipes at you with its razor-sharp
claws and catches you on the head as you run past. If
you are wearing a helmet, lose 1 STAMINA point
only. If you are not wearing a helmet, lose 4 STAMINA
points from the deep head wound caused. If you are
still alive, you summon all your remaining energy
and run for your life. Turn to 286.

181
You feel a tingling sensation as the liquid runs down
your throat. A dull pain that starts in your stomach
quickly spreads through your body. If you are wear-
ing a turquoise ring, turn to 82. If you are not wearing
this ring, turn to 332.

182

Furiously hacking, stamping, crushing and stabbing,
you attack the swarm of Plague Rats. Inevitably some
of them will bite you, as there are 37 of them! Each
Attack Round roll one die and add your current SKILL
score to it. This is the number of rats you kill each
round. Each round that any are left alive, you will lose
1 STAMINA point. If you win, turn to 57.

183-184

183

As the walls close in, you just have time to jump
through the hole in the wall to avoid being crushed.
You land heavily on the floor of an enormous cave.
Water drops noisily on to the floor from the tips of
stalactites hanging down from the high rock ceiling
above. The cave is lit by a strange fluorescent fungus,
which grows in patches all over the walls and gives
off an eerie amber light. “I wonder if that was the
emerald we were looking for?’ Littlebig asks a little
gloomily. ‘I hope not.’ You tell Littlebig not to worry
and suggest he starts looking for a way out of the cave.
Turn to 266.

184

The painting is of a red dragon asleep in its cavern lair
surrounded by thousands of gold pieces and items of
treasure. You can hardly believe your eyes when one
of the dragon’s eyes flicks open and its tail swishes
from side to side. Instinctively you drop the painting
on the floor and draw your sword as the dragon
takes on a three-dimensional shape and expands out
of the painting. Smoke shoots out of its nostrils as it
flaps its wings to prepare for flight. Even though it is
only a metre in length, the dragon’s fiery breath and
sharp talons can cause a lot of damage.

RED DRAGON
If you win, turn to 391.

SKILL 6 STAMINA 6

E} CJ

yet, a i Ae
aE ID eae fg
ee jie

a

185

185

You wrap your fingers around the handle of the
sword and pull it gently. You smile as the sword
slides out easily from the rock as though from its
scabbard. Littlebig screams with delight and grabs
hold of the dagger, the last remaining weapon. It, too,
comes free and both of you start to chuckle with
nervous laughter as a section of the wall starts to rise
into the ceiling to reveal another room. Standing on a
wooden plinth, in. the middle of an otherwise empty
room, is a magnificent treasure made of gold. ‘Look!’
shouts Littlebig, almost beside himself with excite-
ment. “A dragon! It’s the golden dragon!’ With your
heart pounding, you walk into the treasure chamber
and stare almost in disbelief at the golden dragon that
you have been seeking. Now here it is within touching
distance. Your mind suddenly goes back to when you
were in the Blue Pig Tavern and you recall the words
of waming given to you by Henry Delacor. ‘Before
touching the golden dragon, place both the emerald
eyes in their sockets.’ If you have two emerald eyes,
turn to 49. If you only have one emerald, turn to 84.
186-188

186
After turning sharply right, the corridor soon ends ata
large oak door with ornate iron hinges The door is
firmly shut. If you wish to try to force the door open,
turn to 389. If you would rather save your energy and
return to the last junction to continue on, turn to 288.

187
The Ghost has been under the spell of Floresto for over
five years, acting as both a guardian for his collection
of swords and also as a combat training partner.
However, magical music can release this trapped soul
back to its own world. If you have something musical
you should use it now. Will you:

Try a Golden Orb? Turn to 347
Try a Tin Whistle? Turn to 145
Use neither of these and attack

with your sword? Turn to 27

188

The channel narrows and the flow of the river
increases. You are soon in a tunnel with a very low
ceiling and are forced to lie flat on the raft. Ahead, you
hear the roar of water crashing into unseen depths
and you realize to your horror that you are ji

for a waterfall. Suddenly the raft hits a rock and
breaks apart before plunging over the edge of the
waterfall. You are bowled over and over and crash
into a dark, watery grave. Your adventure is over.

189-190

189
Having nothing in your possession with which to
open the door, you decide to climb back down the
Staircase to find another way out. You spend the next
few hours walking around the cavern. Littlebig starts
to complain that he is tired and fed up but you keep on

Searching for a way out until you are quite exhausted.

Finally you call it a day and lie down to sleep between
two boulders. You fall into such a deep sleep that you
do not hear the almost silent flutter of the wings of a
Vampire Bat circling overhead. Finally it lands nearby
and transforms into a female Vampire who is seeking
revenge. She walks silently over to you and sinks her
two fangs into your neck while you sleep. Then she
does the same to Littlebig. When you wake, both of
you will have become Vampires, condemned to a
shadow life. Your adventure is over.

190
You just manage to scramble to the other side of the
pit. As you land, some small stones are dislodged and
fall back into the dark pit. You hear some shuffling
sounds below and wonder what creature lurks in the
Shadows. Not staying to find out, you hurry on up
the corridor. Turn to 98.

BE) CL

191-194
191

A black rat suddenly appears out of a hole in the wall.
It looks crazed, with mad red eyes and a slavering jaw
from which two long fangs protrude. It runs straight
at you without fear and jumps on to your leg. Roll two
dice. If the total is the same or less than your SKILL,
turn to 370. If the total is higher than your sKILL, tum
to 66.

192
The copper key turns the lock of the copper box. It
clicks open and inside you find a polished stone
etched with the words ‘four sword’. Turn to 227.

193
The corridor comes to an end at a junction with
turnings to left and right. If you want to walk down
the left-hand corridor, turn to 54. If you would rather
go down the right-hand corridor, turn to 20.

194
You tread warily around the slumbering beast

Having successfully avoided waking it you enter a
new tunnel. Turn to 378.

—eier

—_ <_ _) =- C=

195-196
195

As the raging Hell Demon closes in for the kill, you
frantically grab the fabled knife from your belt and
strike out and up at the demon’s throat. It tries to
block the knife with its muscular arm but howls in
pain as the tempered blade severs it completely, like a
knife cutting through butter. Amazed and excited,
you lunge at the demon again, spurred on by
Littlebig’s shouts of encouragement.

HELL DEMON STAMINA 10

Each time you win an Attack Round, the kris knife
will cause 2 SKILL points and 4 STAMINA points of
damage. If you win, turn to 232.

SKILL 10

196

You cough to get the attention of the old man who
then puts down his brush to look at you. He enquires
if he can be of assistance and you ask him if he knows
the whereabouts of the emerald you are seeking. He
tugs on his beard and shakes his head. ‘We don’t
speak about the Eye of the Dragon here,’ he says
nervously. ‘Most of those who’ve come treasure
hunting down in the dungeons have never been seen
again. Can't help you I’m afraid. But would you like
to buy my new painting of a lovely owl?’ he asks
enthusiastically, ‘I only want 5 Gold Pieces for it.’ If
you wish to buy the small painting you must pay his
asking price before leaving the room. Or you can leave
without buying the painting. Turn to 236.

E} Ed

i

197

197

Holding a burning torch in front of him, Littlebig
leads the way down the steps. You descend into a
large cellar with bare stone walls that are damp and
covered with brown fungus. The floor has large
patches of sticky green slime covering it and old bones
and skulls are everywhere. The hissing sound grows
louder and suddenly the most hideous creature you
have ever seen steps slowly into view from out of the
shadows. Its shape is humanoid but large and
blubbery. Foul green slime drips from sores on its
repulsive body. But the most revolting thing about the
VERMINSPAWN is that its body is completely
covered by worms, lice, cockroaches, maggots, rats
and leeches that craw] in and out of every orifice,
crease and fold on its bloated body. A forked tongue
flicks out of its gaping mouth, which houses rows of
blackened teeth. The Verminspawn is a fearsome
fighter and it possesses mental powers that paralyse
its opponents with fear. If you have the ‘Skullsplitter’
sword, turn to 87. If you do not have this sword, turn
to 172.

198-200
198

When the staff hits the stone there is a deafening
boom that is louder than the loudest thunder you
have ever heard. It causes a sonic wave, which knocks
you off your feet when you let go of the staff. Lose 1
STAMINA point. When you pick it up to give it a
closer inspection you see an inscription on it in tiny
writing. It says ‘Staff of Thunder — hold on tight.’ You
remember these words and decide to keep the staff. If
you have not done so already, you may either open
the wooden chest (turn to 327) or open the book (turn
to 165). Alternatively you may follow the arrows
down the corridor (turn to 248).

199
The noise of water dripping from the stalactites into
the pool on the floor echoes eerily through the cavern.
You notice that one pool has a wooden ladle lying
next to it. The water in the pool seems to sparkle in the
light. If you would like to drink the water, turn to 150.
If you would rather keep walking, turn to 301.

200
No sooner does the lifeless body of the Cyclops hit the
floor than Littlebig starts searching through its
pockets. When he’s finished he shakes his head and
says, ‘I can’t believe the only things of any value this
brute had were 3 Gold Pieces. But I’ll take his battle-
axe, thank you very much. Very nice craftsmanship, I
must say.” You pocket the Gold Pieces and set off
again down the misty corridor. Eventually the mist
clears and you arrive at a metal door in the right-hand

201-202

wall that has a sign attached to it with the words ‘Pia’s
Potions’. If you want to open the door, turn to 393. If
you would rather walk on, turn to 265.

201
As you plunge your sword into the Snake Witch, she
disappears in a puff of smoke. You hear her sickly
voice shout “You missed!’ When the smoke clears
she is nowhere to be seen. A mouse runs between
your feet and through a tiny hole in the far wall.
Meanwhile, the cauldron starts to boil over on the fire
and you see the image of the Snake Witch in the steam.
Her eyes stare at you and her mouth is wide open with
laughter, although you cannot hear her laugh. She
extends an arm towards you, gesturing with one long
crooked finger for you to come closer. In the palm of
her hand you see a small emerald in the shape of an
eye! Your heart skips a beat with excitement. If you
want to grab the emerald from her outstretched hand,
turn to 357. If you would rather leave the room
immediately, turn to 323.

202
The dimly lit corridor comes to a dead end where
there is a large wooden barrel standing against the
wall. ‘That’s a bit of a strange place to leave a barrel,’
Littlebig remarks. ‘I wonder what's inside it?’ If you
want to prise the lid off the barrel with your sword,
turn to 50. If you would rather go back down the
corridor, turn to 234.

Ee] [ed

203-206

203
The noise of the stone is not loud enough to wake the
sleeping dragon. But the look of fear on Littlebig’s
face is so intense you almost burst out laughing. You
carry on walking on tip-toes and enter the new tunnel.
Turn to 378.

204
Striding up the corridor you see a dilapidated wooden
doorway in the left-hand wall. If you want to step
through the doorway, turn to 64. If you want to keep
on walking, turn to 317.

205
You lift it carefully out of the coffin and are surprised
to hear soft music coming from it. You put the orb
down on the floor and the music stops. It starts again
when you lift it up. You hand it to Littlebig who places
it in your backpack and once again it falls silent. ‘How
strange,’ says Littlebig. ‘But I’m sure it will come in
useful sometime or other. Let’s go,’ Littlebig strides
off and you walk on after him. Turn to 156.

206
With your sword ready for action you cautiously peer
around the corner, but there is nobody to be seen. The
corridor ahead ends in a T-junction where there is a
white symbol on the wall. You decide to take a closer
look. Turn to 308.

207-209

207
As you run past the Skeletons you feel a sharp pain in
your back. The sword of one of the Skeletons has
sliced through your clothing and made a deep wound
m your back. Lose 3 STAMINA points. Not stopping
to look behind, you run on down the corridor.
Turn to 134.

208

As you run past the Hell Demon it lashes out at you
with its claws and catches your midriff. If you are
wearing chain-mail, lose 1 STAMINA point only. If
you are not wearing chain-mail, lose 4 sTAMINA
points from the deep gash in your stomach. If you are
still alive, you summon all your remaining energy
and run for your life. Turn to 169.

209

Littlebig strides on confidently and says, ‘I bet that
message is rubbish and the golden dragon is down
here somewhere. Somebody didn’t want us to follow
them.’ He has hardly finished speaking when
suddenly the corridor floor gives way beneath your
feet. You fall ten metres down a pit and land on iron
spikes that are tipped with deadly poison. Your
adventure is over.

Ct] Es

210-211

210
You take the piece of mirror out of your backpack and
hold it up to the Medusa. You hear an anguished
scream, which quickly fades to silence. Slowly, you
open one eye and then the other to see the rigid torso
of the Medusa who has been turned to stone by the
reflection of her own stare. You put the mirror in your
backpack and search the room. In a corner cupboard
you find an ornate wooden box which opens to reveal
a strange necklace. A small snake’s skull hangs on a
silver chain. If you want to put the necklace around
your neck, turn to 297. If you would rather leave the
room without it, turn to 281.

211

The door opens into a cavernous room in which the
floor is littered with small bones and debris. Standing
in the middle of the debris you see an ugly two-
headed TROLL. it is busy sharpening its large axe on a
spinning stone wheel that is powered by a treadle.
One of its head’s turns to stare at you. Its face is
covered with warts and its large teeth stick out of its
drooling mouth like tusks. [t is violent, stupid and
very dangerous. If you want to fight the Troll, turn to
359. If you would rather slam the door shut and hurry
on up the corridor, turn to 166.
212-213

242
You soon arrive at a wooden trapdoor in the floor.
While you stand guard, Littlebig lifts the trapdoor by
its iron ring. A horrible stench wafts up into your
nostrils making you feel quite ill. Stone steps lead
down into the gloom below, from where you can hear
a faint hissing sound. If you want to go down the steps,
turn to 197. If you would rather close the trapdoor and
walk on, turn to 355.

213
The Mercenary grunts and turns around to walk out
of the cavern. The Uglukk Orc cannot resist a chance
to land a cowardly blow. Turning away from you, it
strides towards the Mercenary and lands a mighty
blow on his head with its heavy club. The Mercenary
crumples to the floor with blood pouring from his
cracked skull. Thinking this tactic is a good one to use
yourself in these circumstances, you rush at the Orc
from behind and strike a heavy blow with your sword.
The Orc, too, slumps to the floor, its dying breath
gurgling in its throat. If you want to search the bodies,
turn to 299. If you would rather search the cavern
first, turn to 127.

214-216

214

You stare at the axe for a few seconds as you convince
yourself that you are making the right choice. You
take hold of the axe handle in both hands and lean
back to pull on it. You breathe a huge sigh of relief as
the axe comes away from the wall! with ease. Now
there are only two weapons left in the wall. If you
want to choose the sword to pull first, turn to 128. If
you want to pull the dagger first, turn to 2.

215
Hardly able to see, and feeling sick and disorientated,
you wake up in a tiny room measuring some two
metres by two metres. There are no doors in the walls.
On the low ceiling there is a luminous crystal, which
gives off an eerie green glow. You have been tele-
ported to an old prison cell in another part of the
labyrinth. Lose 2 SKILL points and 2 STAMINA points.
You scratch around in the thick dirt on the floor
and find an iron bolt which is attached to what feels
like it could be a trapdoor. You pull on the bolt and
suddenly the iron door falls open into a room below. If
you want to search further in the dirt of the prison cell,
turn to 29. If you would rather jump down into the
room below, turn to 64.

216
Hf you are carrying a shield, turn to 397. If you do not
have a shield, turn to 132.

E Ea

217-220

217
You utter the magical words at the top of your voice
but, to your absolute horror, they fail to work. Tum
to 130.

218

You stand back from the lifeless Wolf and look
around. The old man has gone. A search of the room
reveals a highly polished steel wristband that the old
man was using as a brush holder. After placing it on
your wrist you feel a sudden surge of power run
through your body. Add 1 SKILL point and leave the
room. Tum to 236.

219

You soon arrive at the edge of a pit that is roughly
three metres square. A bamboo ladder runs down one
side into total darkness. “You won't catch me climbing
down that ladder,’ Littlebig says quite firmly. ‘Tf you
want to, however, be my guest!’ If you want to climb
down the ladder, turn to 394. If you would rather
walk on, turn to 4.

220
As you walk along you notice a trail of dried blood on
the floor, as though a wounded creature has been
dragged along the floor. You follow the trail of blood
to a door in the left-hand wall which has strange sym-
bols crudely etched into it. Whoever was wounded
must have been dragged into the room or corridor on
the other side of the door. You press your ear to the
door and hear the sound of somebody moaning in

221-223

pain. If you want to open the door, turn to 277. If you
would rather walk on up the corridor, turn to 307.

221
You drop to your knees as the poison takes its toll. You
begin to lose consciousness and your body feels like it
is on fire with fever. You can’t quite believe that after
all you have been through, and the creatures you
have fought, a tiny spider could defeat you. Lose 7
STAMINA points. If you are still alive, turn to 349.

222,
As you start to walk, you trip over one of the Skeletons
and fall to the ground. Your helmet falls off your head
as you land. You immediately feel stronger, as if a bolt
of energy has surged through you. You kick the
helmet against the wall and you hear a sound like a
cry of pain. Taking no chances, you swing a mighty
blow with your sword on to the helmet, cleaving it in
two. You grunt in satisfaction and walk on down the
corridor. Turn to 134.

223
The Mercenary’s ugly face erupts with rage as he
raises his sword with both hands high above his head,
ready to strike a heavy blow. ‘Nobody goes back on
a deal with me and lives to see the light of day,’
he screams at the top of his gruff voice. You have no

choice but to fight the giant man.
MERCENARY SKILL 8 STAMINA 10
If you win, turn to 147.

EE:

Sess
224-226

224
You turn the comer and see the figure running away
as fast as he can. ‘Let him go,’ Littlebig shouts, ‘I'l
never catch him. You can chase him on your own but
don’t forget to come back for me.’ If you want to let
the person escape, turn to 368. If you want to run after
him on your own, turn to 99.

225
You walk into a large room that, much to your
surprise, is crammed full of lavish furniture and furn-
ishings. There are ornately carved tables and chairs,
beautiful paintings and vases, and embroidered
drapes and curtains. At the back of the room, you are
shocked to see a beautiful young woman is locked
inside an iron cage. She seems unafraid of you and
smiles coyly. If you want to try to rescue her, turn to
to. If you wish to leave the room immediately, turn
to 116.

226

Hovering above the steaming embers of the fire, the
illusion of the Snake Witch reappears. She smiles and
says, ‘Only a fool such as you would expect to barge
into my chamber and steal an emerald of such beauty.
My name is Vigdis and I am the most beautiful
woman in the world. Do you agree?’ You look at her
and are repulsed by her hideous face, which is covered
with scabs and warts. Her nose is long and hairy, and
her mouth houses two rows of broken black teeth. If
you wish to agree with her, turn to 71. If you want to
tell her she is ugly, turn to 100.

227-228

227
If you have another key and you wish to open another
box, turn to the number that is stamped on the key. If
you have finished opening the boxes or do not have
any more keys, turn to 390.

228

You are consumed by a raging temperature and your
vision is badly blurred. You sink to your knees feeling
as though you cannot move a muscle. You expect to
feel the sharp pain of the spider’s bite again but
instead you feel cold liquid hit your face and then
somebody pushing some foul-tasting leaves into
your mouth. ‘Come on young adventurer,’ shouts
Littlebig. ‘It’s no time to go to sleep now. Chewing
these lumbugg leaves will soon have you feeling as
fit as a flea,’ he laughs, quite unconcerned that you
feel as though you are about to die. It only takes a few
minutes for the leaves to counteract the poison. The
fever is gone and you feel fine again. Add 2 STAMINA
points. You stand up and see two squashed spiders on
the floor that must have been stamped on by Littlebig,
who is now standing on his tiptoes trying to reach
down. into the barrel. First, he throws out a good
length of rope that you decide to keep. Then he pulls
himself back out again huffing and puffing, clutching
ared clay doll that has copper nails sticking out of its
head like hair. ‘I wonder what this is?’ asks Littlebig,
handing it to you. If you want to drop the doll on to
the floor to break it, turn to 19. If you would rather
throw it back in the barrel and walk back down the
corridor, turn to 234.

Cl G3

229-231

229
After wiping the blood from your sword you begina
search of the kitchen. There are lots of utensils, pots
and pans but nothing of use to you. You are about to
leave when you notice a corked green bottle on top of
a cupboard. You pick it up and uncork it to find that it
contains a clear, odourless liquid. If you want to drink
some of the liquid, turn to 32. If you would rather
pour it away, leave the kitchen and continue up the
corridor, turn to 336.

230
There is nothing of interest in the cellar but you find
an iron door in the far corner. It is not locked but itis
very heavy and difficult to open due to its rusted
hinges. If you want to open it fully, tum to 104. If you
would rather leave the cellar and continue along the
corridor above, turn to 355.

231
As you climb up into their lair, another of the Niblicks
lands its club on the back of your head. If you are
wearing a helmet, lose 1 STAMINA point. If you
are not wearing a helmet, lose 3 STAMINA points
Bruised and battered you draw your sword to fight
the Niblicks one at a time.

232
SKILL STAMINA
First NIBLICK 4 3
Second NIBLICK 5 2
Third NIBLICK 3 4
EH you win, turn to 295.
232

Littlebig looks down at the bloody corpse and says,
“How did that thing find a way to our world? It must
have killed and eaten the poor old man and taken his
image to roam through the dungeon looking harm-
less. It’s a good thing that you had the kris knife or we
would have been eaten too.’ Littlebig points to the
floor and says, ‘Hey, what’s that on the floor under
the chair?’ You look to where he is pointing and see a
leather bag. Will you:

Open the leather bag? Turn to 140
Leave it and go down the left-hand

passage? Turn to 169
Leave it and go down the right-hand

passage? Tun to 286

233-234
233

You tell Littlebig that you will enter first and bend
down to crawl along the dark tunnel. In the far
distance you can see a faint glow of light and, as you
approach the end of the tunnel, you try to be as quiet
as possible. You see that it opens out into a huge cave
and that you are halfway up the side of the wall.
Looking down, you see a giant, black-scaled reptile
asleep in the middle of the floor. It has a long neck and
sail and huge wings that are folded across its ridged
dack. Smoke rises from its large, gaping nostrils.
There is no mistaking it: the terrifying beast that is
slumbering below is a BLACK DRAGON. ‘Maybe we
can creep past it while it’s asleep,’ whispers Littlebig.
But how are we going to get down on to the floor of
the dragon’s lair?’ If you are carrying a coil of rope,
sum to 242. If you do not have any rope, you will have
<0 climb down the wall. Turn to 120.

234
As you walk back along the corridor you suddenly see
something in the wall that you hadn’t noticed earlier.
It’s a small hole, just big enough to put your hand into.
lf you want to reach into the hole, turn to 101. If you
would rather keep walking back to the junction and
head straight on, turn to 354.

Ee)
235-237

235
Lo Lo Mai looks suddenly excited and says,

“The room of webs might seem bare

But you'll find a secret tunnel there

Beyond the weapons fixed in stone

The golden dragon stands alone.’
Without further ado, she walks over to the door oppo-
site and opens it, gesturing for you to walk through it.
Trusting her, you do as she bids. Turn to 396.

236
You soon arrive at another doorway in the right-hand
wall and above it there is a sign which reads ‘Thomas
Compepper, Merchant’. If you wish to open the door,
turn to 329. If you want to continue walking up the
corridor, turn to 262.

237
You see that there is now thick slimy jelly running
down the walls, large globules of the stuff are falling
off the ceiling and landing on the floor with a dull
splat sound. The jelly is green and vapour rises from
it. The acid smell is quite intense and unpleasant to
breathe. Littlebig pokes his dagger into the jelly and
there is a loud hissing sound as it dissolves the tip of

238

the blade. ‘Death Slime,’ Littlebig mumbles to him-
self, ‘I’ve heard about it but I’ve never seen it before.
Believe it or not, this stuff is alive. It can reform into
one ball of slime and even take a humanoid shape
to attack and consume you. We have got to go quickly
before it does. If you get a drop of this stuff on you it
will burn a hole right through you!’ If you want to
make a run for it past the Death Slime, turn to 356. If
you want to turn around again and walk through the
mist, turn to 126.

238
As you walk along the corridor, two rats run past you
and disappear into a small hole in the left-hand wall.
Another rat appears in front of you, it stops when it
sees you and scurries into the hole in the wall. In the
distance you can see that the floor is littered with
broken bones that are being gnawed on by ten or eleven
rats. As you get closer, you can see that the bones are
definitely humanoid. ‘Somebody met an untimely
end here,’ says Littlebig rather sombrely. Suddenly
he runs towards the rats, screaming at the top of his
voice, The rats scatter and run off in all directions,
leaving Littlebig standing among the bones looking
rather solemn. You ask him why he is looking so
glum. He points at a brass button on the floor and
says, ‘This button has a special symbol of a letter S
with a crown above it. That means it comes from
Stonebridge, my village. But I wonder who it
belonged to? I’m going to take it with me in case
somebody back home recognizes it.’ You pat Littlebig
reassuringly on the back and suggest you move on.

Cc] Es

239-240

You soon come to an old iron door in the left-hand
wall that is firmly locked from the inside. There is no
keyhole. Littlebig gives it a couple of kicks with his
large boots just for good measure, but it doesn’t
budge. Suddenly, a figure appears from around the
comer in the distance, sees you, and disappears back
around the corner. If you want to chase after the
figure, turn to 92. If you want to continue trying to
open the door, turn to 404.

239
The pendant feels warm against your skin and it also
gives off a faint green glow. If you want to take off
the pendant, leave the foom and walk back down the
corridor, turn to 365. If you would rather leave
the pendant on, turn to 62.

240

All of the sheets of paper have a two-line rhyme
written on them in red ink. Some of the rhymes have
lines drawn through them as if they have been
discarded. None of them make sense to you or
Littlebig, apart from one which reads:

‘If you see a monster double,
The left one is the cause of trouble.’

Littlebig frowns and says, ‘That must mean there is a
deadly Doppelganger somewhere in this dungeon
They are able to transform themselves into a duplicate
image of any humanoid near them, and if you attack
the person being copied instead of the Doppelganger

|
|

241-242

itself, well, you could lose friends that way! But
now we know, don’t wel’ Thinking about the Doppel-
ganger, you decide what to do. If you have not done
so already, you may drink the soup (turn to 8g).
Otherwise you can open the door opposite (turn to
#12).

241

The Witch starts shrieking at the top of her voice, ‘Dim
and Dumb, my little boys! You've killed Dim and
Dumb. Now you are going to pay for this with your
own life!’ She suddenty reaches down to open a trap-
door and cackles with glee as a swarm of black rats
mp out of the hole to attack you. If you are wearing a
gold bracelet, turn to 12. If you are not wearing a gold
bracelet, turn to 182.

» 242
After fixing the rope to a rock overhang, you lower

yourself over the edge with Littlebig following right
behind. Turn to 305.

243-245
243

The door opens into another dimly lit, stone-walled
passageway which ends at a doorway. The door is not
locked and you enter a small, circular room with a
shallow pool at its centre. A ledge around the pool
allows you to walk to the closed door opposite you. At
the bottom of the pool lie several gold coins. If you
want to throw one of your Gold Pieces into the pool
and make a wish, turn to 15. If you would rather walk
around to the far door, turn to 322.

244

As soon as you touch your sword there is a blinding
flash and, momentarily, you are unable to see any-
thing. When your sight returns it is blurred, and
everything looks slightly out of focus. Lose 1 SKILL
point. Pia and her potions are nowhere to be seen. ‘I
think she disappeared through a secret door at the
back of the room,’ Littlebig says, rubbing his eyes.
You try to find a way to open the secret door but
eventually give up. There is nothing you can do
but leave the room. Turn to 265.

245

There is a clear liquid inside the silver flask that
has a faint odour of herbs. If you want to drink the
liquid, turn to 181. If you would rather not chance
it, you may, if you have not done so already, either
open the leather bag (turn to 114) or take the sword
(turn to 358). Your only other option is to walk on (turn
to 212).

cr} El

246-249

246
You are too quick for the Skeletons. Their swords slice
through the air but fail to hit you. Without looking
behind, you run through the second alcove and on
down the corridor. Turn to 134.

247

Littlebig helps you rub the healing Stinger Leaves
on to your bites and stings. You use them all up, but
they do help to counteract the insects’ poison. Add 4
STAMINA points. ‘So what are we going to do now?’
asks Littlebig. If you want to walk on, turn to 4. If you
would rather walk back to the staircase in the cavern
wall, turn to 318.

248
You follow the chalk arrows until the corridor comes
to a dead end where you see a chalk circle on the floor.
Hanging through a hole in the ceiling above the circle
is a thick rope. If you want to pull on the rope, turn to
350. If you would rather walk back down the corridor,
turn to 144.

249
You smile and introduce yourself and Littlebig to Lo
Lo Mai. She smiles back at you and says,

‘Welcome warriors brave and bold
Do you seek the dragon made of gold?’

If you want to reply ‘yes’, turn to 235. If you want to
reply ‘no’, turn to 162.

250-252

250

The corridor turns sharply to the left and continues
straight on. Further on you come to a wooden door in
the right-hand wall that has a bright yellow painting
of a sun in the middle of it. You listen at the door but
hear nothing. If you want to open the door, turn to
176. If you wish to continue walking up the corridor,
turn to 204.

251
You convince yourself that the dagger is the correct
choice and step forward to pull it from the wall. You
feel your heart beating faster as you reach out to take
the dagger. Turn to 280.

252
The fat man suddenly disappears in a puff of smoke
and is replaced on the cushion by a knotted leather
purse. You take the purse, untie the knot and count 15
Gold Pieces into your hand. Add 1 LucK point. If you
have not done so already you may search the bodies
(turn to 299) or leave the cavern (turn to 76).

253-254

+, .

There is a pack of rats gnawing on the bones that you
d —- TON tase j see, aS you approach, are definitely humanoid. ‘Some-
SS elie) BF oy EARN aa body met an untimely end here,’ says Littlebig, rather
: a (eo Pe (3 sombrely. Suddenly he mms towards the rats,
screaming at the top of his voice. The rats scatter and
run off in all directions, leaving Littlebig standing
amid the bones looking rather solemn. You ask him
why he is looking so glum. He points at a brass button
on the floor and says, ‘This button has a special
symbol of a letter S with a crown above it. That means
it comes from Stonebridge, my village. But I wonder
who it belonged to? I’m going to take it with me in
case somebody back home recognizes it. Maybe that
person we saw just now knows something about it. [
Suggest we go and find out.’ If you want to turn
around and chase after the figure, turn to 92. If you
would rather keep on walking, turn to 191.

>

254

You enter a dingy, cramped room. The walls are
Imed with shelves that are stacked with all sorts of
bottles and jars containing herbs, potions, insects,
dead rats and disgusting-looking things like pickled
ears and animal droppings. A huge fire is burning m
the centre of the room, over which an ugly old woman
with long black fingernails is stirring foul-smelling
studge in a cauldron. She turns to face you and smiles
wo reveal two rows of broken black teeth. If you want to
talk to her, turn to 95. If you would rather leave the
room without talking to the woman, turn to 323.

Ed C)

255-257
255

The corridor turns sharply right again and you see a
rough hole in the left-hand wall just big enough for
you to climb through. You peer into the hole but can’t
really see much in the gloom beyond. Littlebig grabs a
flaming torch from its holder on the wall and thrusts it
through the hole to reveal a small cave that has been
carved out of the rock. Its rough walls are covered
with strange drawings and symbols. There are also
some chains attached to the wall. If you want to climb
through the hole into the cave, turn to 303. If you
would rather press on, turn to 108.

256
The silver ball starts to warm up in your hand and is
soon quite hot. It gets hotter and hotter untl you
cannot hold it any longer and are forced to drop it on
the floor. In a blinding flash it explodes into tiny pieces
that shoot out in all directions. Test your Luck. If you
are Lucky, turn to 48. If you are Unlucky, turn to 375.

257
Whilst you are cutting through the cobwebs, a deadly
black widow spider drops from the ceiling on to your
back. Test your Luck. If you are Lucky, turn to 273. If
you are Unlucky, turn to 384.

258-259

258
The mirror shaiters and the terrible pain in your body
slowly eases. When you finally recover you search the
room but find nothing except a Gold Piece which is
odged in a crack in the floor. You decide to keep a
piece of the mirror for LUCK and leave the room by
ne door opposite. Turn to 243.

259
Littlebig kicks the door several times in frustration
and hammers on it with his fists. Much to his surprise,
2 piece of paper suddenly appears from under the
door. He picks it up and reads out a rhyme that is
written on it:

‘No key will open the iron door
So ring a bell and count to four.’

If you possess a brass bell, turn to 296. If you do not
Aave a bell, turn to 189.

260—262

260
It is a very short rhyme that reads:

“Roses are red

Violets are blue

A face like yours

Belongs in the zoo.’
Without warning, twenty iron bars shoot up out of
the sand and thump into the ceiling to trap you in the
sand pit like a caged animal. The iron bars are too
close together to allow you to squeeze out betweem
them. If you have eaten green paste from a jar found im
the green room, turn to 315. If you have not eaten this
paste, turn to 338.

261
You sense that the dwarf you are fighting is not
attacking with all his heart. You look into his eyes
and see a look of desperation. It is the look of a friend

who is fighting you against his will. You realize

your mustake and turn to face the other dwarf. Tum
to 97.

262
As you walk along the corridor you step on a floor
stone, which gives a little under your weight. You

hear a click as an arrow is released from a hole in the -

wall. Test your Luck. If you are Lucky, the arrow

misses you. If you are Unlucky, the arrow thuds inte |
your leg. Lose 2 STAMINA points. Cursing loudly, »
you pull the arrow from your leg and limp up the

corridor. Turn to §9.

263-265

263

she Ghost lunges at you with its sword, as you run for
door, just catching you in the leg with the tip of the
de. Lose 2 STAMINA points. But it doesn’t stop
‘you and you run out of the room as Littlebig slams the
sor in the Ghost’s face. ‘Come on!’ shouts Littlebig.
's gol!’ Needing no encouragement, you hurry

ong the corridor. Turn to 94.

264

S$ you walk towards the door, the wizard shouts out
an angry voice, ‘Those who have no time to talk to
always pay a price!’ There is a sudden flash of light
¢ you are smashed to the ground by an invisible
». Lose 2 STAMINA points. When you stand up,
t backpack feels a little lighter. Roll 1 die. This is
number of items you must lose to the wizard who
taken them into his dimension. You waste no
time and dash out of the room and up the

idor. Turn to 65.

265

"Shere is anew passageway in the right-hand wall that
‘Jeu see some forty metres ahead. A hooded figure
Wearing dark robes suddenly appears from around
Se corner carrying a black sack over his shoulder. In
‘right hand you see a long dagger. The figure sees
a. stops and turns, and runs back the way he came.
_=ey! Come back!’ Littlebig shouts. His cries echo
the corridor but the hooded figure does not
arn. You decide to run after it and turn right down

“@enew corridor. Tur to 224.

Pe] EJ

266

266

As you walk through the enormous cave you see what
appears to be a large boulder some three metres high.
Sut all of a sudden it moves. Standing before you on
* huge trunk-like legs is a fearsome beast with the
most terrifying head you have ever seen. Its skull is
missing in parts, exposing sections of its pulsating red
erain. It has many horns that grow out of the rest of its
skull like spikes, Its teeth are long and sharp, its nose
sflat and dripping, and its two eyes are tiny and close
tgether. Its body is rock-like and its huge muscular
ams end in massive stone fists. The GIGANTUS is
delirious with hunger and is eager to rip you apart.

GIGANTUS SKILL 12 STAMINA 12

The beast’s prodigious strength will cause 4 STAMINA
points of damage if it wins an Attack Round. But
during each Attack Round you will have two attacks,
@me for yourself and one for Littlebig who has a SKILL
ef 8. However, the Gigantus will only attack you. If
you win, tum to 133.
267-268

267
Miraculously, the second fireball misses you by
centimetres. It flies past your head before exploding
against the wall at the end of the corridor. You rush in
to attack the Wizard who is now forced to defend him-
self with a short sword that is made of an unusually
dark metal.

EVIL WIZARD

If you lose an Attack Round, turn to 81. If you win
without losing an Attack Round, tum to 113.

SKILL 8 STAMINA &

268

‘Some people never learn,’ Vigdis says with a sigh
Her image suddenly grows in size. She reaches
towards you and wraps you in her ghostly arms. You
try to run away but are unable to move your legs.
Your mind races and you start to panic. Vigdis meant
what she said. She utters an arcane spell and your
body slowly changes into that of a Vampire Bat.
Vigdis is pleased that she has another pet, but for you
the adventure is over.

269-270
269
Littlebig’s face is frozen with fear as the dragon stirs.
Its tail swishes from side to side and one giant eye
flicks open to spy on the intruders. It sees you
immediately and you have no choice but to fight the
enraged beast.

BLACK DRAGON

SKILL14 STAMINA 18

The dragon will concentrate its attack on you but you
will have two strikes each Attack Round, one for
vourself and one for Littlebig. During the first Attack
Round you must Test your Luck to see if you are caught
within the poisonous gas cloud that the dragon blows
out at you. If you are Lucky, it misses. If you are
Unlucky, lose 4 STAMINA points. If, somehow, you
manage to defeat the mighty dragon, turn to 337.

270

The cursed bracelet has some use after all. It counter-
acts the magic of the cursed sword that you are
suddenly able to throw on the ground. If you have not
done so already, you may either read the scroll (turn
to 86) or examine the painting (turn to 184). If you
would rather climb back down the rope and walk
back down the corridor, turn to 144.

Cl Be

271-274
271

For each: Flesh Grub that is alive you must lose 1
STAMINA point. If you are still alive, roll two dice
again to decide how many of the remaining Flesh
Grubs you kill this time. If the number rolled is the
same or greater than the number of Flesh Grubs, turn
to 102. If the number rolled is less than the number of
Flesh Grubs, tum to 63.

272

The bracelet shimmers slightly as you slide it over
your wrist. It suddenly feels hot as it tightens around
you, burning the skin. The bracelet is cursed by evil
magic! Lose 1 SKILL point and 1 STAMINA point.
Unable to remove it, you have no choice but to jump
down into the room below. Turn to 64.

273
Fortunately for you, Littlebig is standing near and
sees the spider land on you. He quickly flicks it off
your back and stamps on it with his large boot. “That
would not have been funny,’ says Littlebig, serious
for once. ‘Little insect, big bite!’ Watching each other’s
back, you carry on your search of the room. Turn to 148.

274
As you tiptoe across the floor you step on a rat’s skuli
that cracks under the weight of your boot. Test your
Luck. If you are Lucky, turn to 23. If you are Unlucky,
turn to 8o.

%
;

275-276
275 ;

You sense there is something not quite right about the
old man and you keep your eye on him as you turn
the corner. There is an unpleasant smell of sulphur
in the air and that is usually the telltale sign of evil.
You trust your instinct and turn around to attack the
old man. Turn to 160.

276

None of the keys that you have fit the rusty old
padlock. One of them breaks off in the lock as you try
to jam it in and becomes useless. Littlebig kicks the
door several times in frustration before slumping on
the floor cursing loudly. Suddenly, he goes quiet
when he sees a piece of paper appear from under the
door. He picks it up and reads out the rhyme that is
written on it.

‘No key will open the iron door

So ring a bell and count to four.’

If you have a brass bell, turn to 296. If you do not
possess a brass beil, turn to 189.

277
277

The door opens into a small dungeon cell that is
furnished with just a small wooden table on which a
candle is burning. Rats scurry across the damp floor.
At the back of the cell you see a short, stocky man
chained to the wall. He has been stripped of his shirt
and you see blood trickling down his side from a deep
wound under his arm. He has pigtails and a long
beard. His chin rests on his chest and he is moaning,
obviously in some considerable pain. He must have
heard you enter the room because he starts to speak
slowly without looking up. ‘T’ve told you a thousand
times,’ he croaks, ‘I do not know where the emerald
eye is. You might as well just kill me now and get it
over and done with.’ You feel terribly sorry for the
poor dwarf, who thinks you are his jailor. You decide
to help him, as he is probably a good-hearted treasure
hunter like yourself. It doesn’t take too long to free the
dwarf who is both surprised and grateful to be
rescued. You patch up his wounds as best you can and
give him food and water. ‘My name is Littlebig,’ he
says enthusiastically, ‘I was ambushed five days ago
by that evil, thieving, half-human called Sharcle.
Have you ever heard of him? He comes from Saffrica.
He would sell his own mother if he could get 2 Gold
Pieces for her! But I’ll get him one day and the world
will be a better place for it.’

You decide to tell Littlebig about your quest and
that you, too, are looking for the emerald eye, ‘Well
let’s go and find it!’ exclaims Littlebig. If Sharcle
wants it so badly, it must be worth something!’ You

[-} Ee

278-279

leave the cell and turn left up the corridor. ‘Stop!’
shouts Littlebig. ‘There’s a trap here.’

Littlebig drops to his knees and crawls slowly along
the corridor, pressing down on all the floor stones.
One of them gives way under the pressure and six
darts immediately shoot out from narrow slits in both
walls. They smash harmlessly into the opposite walls
and Littlebig stands up with a smug grin on his face.
‘Off we go!’ he says in a jolly voice. You soon come toa
junction in the corridor. If you want to turn left, burn
to 354. If you want to turn right, turn to 202.

278

The leaf paste tastes disgusting and makes you feel
quite sick. However, the feeling of nausea soon passes
and is replaced by a feeling of strength and vitality.
Add 1 SKILL point and 2 STAMINA points. At the
bottom of the jar you are surprised to find a small
silver key with the number 14 stamped on it. You put
it in your pocket and leave the room. Turn to 142.

279
As you walk up to the old man, he leaps up into the
air and instantly metamorphoses into a horrific beast,
three metres high and covered in scaly black skin.
Steam hisses from its nostrils and a terrible stench of
sulphur belches out of its fanged mouth. It has a large,
horned head and hands that end in hooked claws. It
has cloven hooves and a long, vivid red tail. For a
moment you are in shock as the HELL DEMON lashes
out at you with its iron-like claws. Lose 4 STAMINA

280-282

points. You reel back from the blow and hear Littlebig
shouting something from behind you. You only catch
two words *... wavy blade ...’ and they puzzle you.
Suddenly the words make sense. If you have a kris
knife, turn to 195. If you do not have this knife, turn

to 371.

280
You close your hand slowly around the handle of the
dagger and take a deep breath. “You can do it!’
Littlebig says encouragingly. You count to three and
then pull on the handle as hard as you can. Despite
pulling it with all your might, the dagger remains
fixed in the wall. Turn to 38.

284
Another door appears in the right-hand wall of the
passageway. It is made of dark oak and is standing
half open. Lf you want to enter the room, turn to 6. If
would rather keep on walking, turn to 112.

282
Despite the darkness of the pit, you can see all the way
to the bottom. The floor is totally covered by hun-
dreds of large scorpions and bloated, hairy spiders
crawling over each other, It’s a trap and not an exit
from the cavern. You call to Littlebig that you are
coming back up.

‘So what are we going to do now” asks Littlebig. If you
want to walk on, turn to 4. If you would rather walk
back to the staircase in the cavern wall, turn to 318.

E] E

a

283-286

283 f
As you leave the room, you are hit on the head by an
invisible club and are knocked to the ground by the
force of the blow. Lose 1 STAMINA point. You scramble
to your feet and leave the room before the angry
wizard attacks you again. Turn to 65.

284

When you reach the door, the voice calling to you falls
silent. You turn the handle and enter a small room. A
door in the opposite wall closes as you walk in the
room. There is a table against the left-hand wall on
which stand a bowl of steaming soup. A chair lies
on its side on the floor by the table. Nailed to the wall
above the table are many sheets of paper. Will you:

Read the sheets of paper? Turn to 240
Drink the soup? Turn to 89
Open the door opposite? Turn to 312

285
You hardly have time to draw breath before the other
Uglukk Orc kicks the table away and charges at you
wielding its club. You take a step back to defend your-
self and stumble on a large bone on the floor. Test your
Luck. If you are Lucky, turn to 313. If you are Unlucky,
turn to 28. 4

286
You arrive at a wooden door in the left-hand wall that
has the words ‘Store Room’ etched into it. The door is
not locked and the handle turns easily. If you want to
enter the Store Room, turn to 361. If you would rather
keep on walking, turn to 346.

287-289

287
The pouch contains a tiny bottle made of purple frosted
glass. The bottle has a glass stopper. It is impossible to
tell if there is anything inside the bottle. If you want
to remove the stopper, turn to 117, [f you would rather
leave it and walk on, turn to 376.

288
You soon arrive back at the junction, To your right you
see the stairs leading back up to the woodcutter’s hut,
It suddenly becomes clear to you that this quest is
going to be very difficult and you are tempted to
climb the stairs. But you urge yourself on, convincing
yourself that you will succeed. Turn to 88.

289

You eed wits your sirens ot BO Oey Sree
prises the box. He peers insi says ina
moardaienice. ‘All that effort just to find two pairs of
old boots!’ He hands one pair to you and you see that
there is a shoemaker's mark that you recognize on the
sole. You tell Littlebig with some satisfaction that these
are Elven Boots that enable people who wear them to
walk silently wherever they go. Without any hesita-
tion you put them on, Add 3 sx1i1, point. Littebig
complains that he should not be wearing anything
that has been made by an elf and puts them on reluc-
tantly, muttering under his breath, Out of curiosity
you decide to move the box away from the wall, Turn
to 326.

EB} CJ

290

290

You walk no more than three paces before the sand
starts to rise in a long line as though something is
swimming just beneath the surface. Suddenly some-
thing breaks through the sand and rears in the air,
ready to strike. Its body is long and bloated and
divided into many segments like a gigantic maggot.
its head does not have eyes but powerful scent glands
above its enormous mouth which is lined with spiked
teeth. The GIANT SANDWORM has not eaten in four
weeks and intends to feed on you. You must fight to
save your life.

GIANT SANDWORM SKILL8 STAMINA 10

if you have a crystal blade dagger, turn to 367. If you
do not have this dagger you must defend yourself
with your sword. If you win, turn to 47.

RES

291

291
You watch Littlebig whistling happily to himself, as
he walks along, and feel very pleased to have such a
good companion with you to explore this infernal
dungeon. Then a dark thought suddenly crosses your
mind. What if you do not find the emerald eye and
have to return to the Blue Pig Tavern empty handed
and explain to Henry Delacor that you have failed?
Would he believe you? Would he still give you the
antidote to the poison? You talk to Littlebig about
your concems and he replies in his usual jovial way,
’Well, we are going. to find the emerald eye and the
golden dragon, so failure is out of the question. And if
that Henry what’s-his-name refuses to give you the
antidote, he will have me to deal with. Hal’ Littlebig’s
optimism is infectious and you feel immediately posi-
tive again. Looking ahead to the junction at the end of
the corridor you see a scrawny, little old man with
a very long white beard sitting on a wooden chair
facing you. He doesn’t seem particularly concerned at
seeing you. He slowly puffs out his cheeks and starts
humming a song to himself. Will you:

Attack him with your sword? Turn to 160
Talk to him? Turn to 30

Ignore him and turn left? Turn to 363
Ignore him and tum right? Turn to 122

292-294
292

The walls grind steadily towards each other as you

gather your thoughts to remember the spell. But can

you remember it exactly? Will you shout:

Agga Zagega Zoo? Turn to 217
Azang Bazang-zang? Turn to 351
Arr Booda Ba? Turn to 402

293
The door opens into a small room. As you walk in the
door slams shut. Behind you stands an ugly, brown-
skinned creature, about a metre and a half tall, who is
dressed in animal skins. It is a GOBLIN armed with
two daggers, intent on slaying you for your treasure.
GOBLIN

If you win, turn to 146.

SKILL 5 STAMINA 5

294

As you raise your sword arm a bolt of lighting shoots
out from the crystal and slams into your chest. Lose 1
SKILL point and 4 STAMINA points. Even if you are
still alive you are dazed and confused and in some
considerable pain. Littlebig tries to support you as Lo
Lo Mai says angrily,

‘Foolish warrior tell me how

You think you will defeat me now

One chance is all you have, to more,

Ten Gold Pieces open yonder door.’

If you want to attack her again, turn to 75. If you have
10 Gold Pieces to pay her instead, turn to 110.

ry] GE)

295-296
295

The Niblicks’ lair is a veritable treasure trove. You
find some bread and apples in the sacks, which
you eat very quickly. Add 2 STAMINA points.
Next, you examine the armour and weapons and help
yourself to a fine bronze shield. Add 1 SKILL point.
Most of the swords are no better than your own, but a
black sword with a large ruby set in the handle
catches your eye. One of the chests contains a rolled
up scroll. And one of the vases contains a copper key
with the number 192 stamped on it. The only other
thing of real interest is an old painting of a dragon.
After placing the key in your pocket, you decide what
to do. Will you:

Pick up the black sword? Turn to 34§
Read the scroll? Turn to 86
Examine the painting? Turn to 184

296

You reach for the brass bell in your backpack and
follow the instructions by ringing it four imes. Much
to your amazement the rusty lock unlocks itself and
the iron door creaks open into a stone-walled corri-
dor. Looking right, you see many broken bones strewn
along the corridor floor. Looking left, you just catch
sight of somebody running away and disappearing
around a comer. If you want to look at the bones, turn
to 253. If you want to follow the person who ran away,
turn to 92.

297-299

297
As you place the necklace over your head you see two

ghostly figures before your eyes. Two shimmering
skeletons armed with swords seem to be coming right
at you! Jt is as if they are running right through you
and then they are gone. Everything appears to be
normal again and, slightly shaken, you leave the
room. Turn to 281.

298

You grab hold of the spear with both hands and get
Teady to pull. ‘Go on, you can do it!’ says Littlebig
excitedly. The spear comes out of the wall as though
it had been lodged in butter rather than rock. You
tumble backwards a couple of steps but remain on
your feet. Littlebig cheers loudly, but now you must
make your second choice, Will you:

Pull the sword? Turn to 106
Pull the dagger? Turn to 280
Pull the axe? Turn to 321
Puli the arrow? Turn to 353

299

You find nothing but maggots and lice in the Uglukk
Orc’s clothing and move over to the Mercenary. His
pockets contain 2 Gold Pieces, a fish hook, a small
brass bell and three copper buttons. After taking what
you want, you decide what to do next. If you have not
done so already, you may search the cavern (turn to
127) or you may leave the cavern (turn to 76).

Cr} Ed

300-301

300

‘After you,’ Littlebig says with a smile, while bowing
in mock deference. You breathe in deeply and jump
on to the first stepping stone. To your amazement
nothing untoward happens to you. You jump between
the stepping stones until you reach the flat corridor
floor again. “Wait for me!’ Littlebig shouts, as he jumps
awkwardly from stone to stone. Despite a couple of
wobbly landings, he reaches you safely. Turn to 255.

301

Walking along, you hear a new sound echoing
through the cavern, like that of many groaning voices.
From out of the gloom step six shuffling figures
wearing tattered rags. Their pallid skin is scarred and
peeling, and their vacant, hollow eyes stare blankly
from their tortured-looking faces. Suddenly animated
by your presence, the ZOMBIES lurch towards you
with their clawed hands outstretched. If you have a
Ring of Zombie control, turn to 58. If you do not have
this ring you can either fight the Zombies (turn to 310)
or try to run for it (turn to 78).

302-303
302

Upon standing on the footmarks, the room appears to
spin before your eyes. You Jose your sense of balance
and fall over feeling sick. You fall in and out of
consciousness and lose track of time. When you come
to, you stand up to find yourself in a different place.
You are back in the woodcutter’s hut with only your
sword, shield and empty backpack. Everything that
you had taken from the labyrinth is gone. You have
been teleported back to the hut and must start your
adventure again. But you are much weaker now, Lase
4 SKILL points and 4 STAMINA points. Turn to 69.

303
As Littlebig gets close to the writing on the wall, he
starts to chuckle to himself. ‘I think this cave used to
be an old prison cell,’ Littlebig says, ‘All these sym-
bols are written in dwarf and poke fun at the Half-Orc
captors of the poor soul who was held here. Some of
them are quite funny. This one says, “Orcs are more
stupid than forks.” And this one says “The anly good
Ore is a dead Orc”. T wonder what happened to the
dwarf? Hello, what's this?’ Littlebig crouches down
and looks closely at some symbols inside a circle. ‘It
says here “Black Dragon leads to Gold Dragon.” |
wonder if that could be the golden dragon we are

304-307
looking for?’ he says excitedly. A search of the cave

reveals nothing else of interest so you climb back out
into the corridor and walk on. Turn to 108,

304
The corridor soon turns sharply to the night, You
arrive at a large, wooden door in the left-hand wall.
You press your ear to the door and hear the sound of
somebody eating very noisily. If you want to open the
door, turn to 111. [f you would rather keep walking up
the corridor, turn to 76.

305
You manage to climb down to the cave floor without
waking the giant dragon. Beyond the dragon you can
see a much larger tunnel entrance. If you are wearing
Elven Boots, tum to 194. If you are not wearing these
boots, turn to 335.

306
You breathe in deeply and run up to the edge of the pit
to jump as high and far as you can. Roll two dice. If the
total is the same or less than your SKILL, turn to 190. If
the total is greater than your SKILL, turn to 55.

Just metres beyond the door, one of the floor stones
moves slightly as you step on it. Too late you notice
the narrow slits in the walls on both sides of the
corridor. You have sprung a trap and six darts shoot
out at you. Test your Luck. If you are Lucky, turn to 77.
If you are Unlucky, turn to 174.

CJ GJ

308-310

308

You see that the symbol is a white star. You look left
and right down the corridor and see that both ways
end with doors. There is nobody to be seen, but
suddenly you hear an eerie, whispering voice coming
from the left saying ‘Come this way’ over and over
again. Then you hear a shrill female voice coming
from the right saying ‘No’ over and over again. If you
want to go left, turn to 154. If you want to go right,
turn to 284.

309
One of the Skeletons was wearing a helmet which is
etched with mysterious runes. The helmet is made of
heavy iron and you think it might have magical
properties, If you want to wear it, turn to 121. If you
would rather walk on without it, turn to 134.

310
The Zombies are slow and clumsy, and you are able to
fight them one at a time. You decide to take on four of
them, leaving two for Littlebig to take care of.

SKILL STAMINA
First ZOMBIE 6 6
Second ZOMBIE 6 7
Third ZOMBIE 5 7
Fourth ZOMBIE 5 5

If you win, turn to 178.

321-313
311

You open drawers and look in cupboards, but find
ttle more than broken crockery and general mess.
You walk over to a pile of logs by the stove. Behind the
logs you find a large axe with a broken handle. There
is a strange inscription etched into the axe head that
has no meaning to you. Intrigued, you put the axe
head in your backpack hoping it may be of use to you
liter. You walk over to the trap door and walk down
the stairs. Turn to 69.

312

You enter another small room with a door in the wall
opposite. Standing in the middie of the room is a
small, eastern-looking girl with short dark hair and
cat-like eyes. She is wearing a white silk robe. In her
feft hand she is holding two sheets of paper and in
her right hand she is holding a triangular-shaped
crystal. In a calm voice she says, ‘Hello, my name is
Lo Lo Mai. My words of wisdom tell no lie.” Will you:

Attack her with your sword? Turn to 294
Speak to her? Turn to 249
Walk past her and open the other

door? Tum to 396

313
You regain your balance and ready yourself for the
ferocious battle.

UGLUKK ORC

If you are still alive after three Attack Rounds, turn
to 161.

SKILL 8 STAMINA 9

EJ (J

314-316

314
Littlebig produces some old cheese, some stale

biscuits and a leather flask of goat’s milk. Though it
was hardly tasty, you welcome the nourishment and
even manage a thirty-minute nap. Add 2 STAMINA
points. Feeling much better, you decide to follow the
wall around the cavern. Turn to go.

315

There appears to be no way out of the cavern. As a last
resort you pull on the iron bars and are amazed to
see that they bend. The green paste has given you
super strength and the ability to bend metal. With
ease you pull two bars apart to enable you to escape.
If you have not done so already, you may either
open the wooden chest (turn to 327) or strike the staff
on the floor (turn to 198). If you would rather leave the
cavern and follow the arrows, turn to 248.

316

As you leap sideways against the wall, you are caught
by a glancing blow on the left shoulder from one of the
ceiling stones. You feel a sharp pain that makes you
cry out. Unfortunately you have fractured your collar
bone. If you are carrying a shield, you will be unable
to use it from now on and must leave it behind. Lose 2
STAMINA points. Littlebig tears a strip of cloth off the
bottom of his tunic and makes a sling for your arm.
Cursing your luck, you walk on. Turn to 255.

317-320

317
Ahead you see that the corridor leads to a narrow
bridge which spans a deep pit. A rope ladder tied to
the bridge descends into the dark depths of the pit
below. If you want to walk over the bridge and carry
on up the corridor, turn to 193. If you want to chance
climbing down the rope ladder, turn to 362.

318

The steps that are cut into the wall of the cavern are
very narrow and you have to concentrate so as not to
fall. At last you reach the top of the steps and the
relative safety of the alcove. There is an iron door at
the back of the alcove that is firmly locked by a large
padlock. If you possess a picklock, turn to 344. If you
do not have a picklock, turn to 159.

319
There is nothing else of interest in the cave apart
from the leather bag that contains a dagger, and a gold
ring which fits nicely on the thumb of your left hand.
You leave the cave and carry on up the corridor. Turn
to 139.

320
Littlebig is still without a weapon, so you must fight
the Wizard on your own. As you close in on him he
releases another fireball. Roil two dice. If the number
rolled is less than or equal to your SKILL score, turn to
267. If the number roiled is greater than your SKILL,
turn to 216.

CJ] EI

321-323
321

You wrap both hands around the axe handle and
breathe in deeply. ‘Give it your best!’ Littlebig says
enthusiastically, Putting one leg against the wall to
get better leverage, you pull the handle as hard as you
can. Unfortunately, it does not move even a milli-
metre. Turn to 38.

322
The door opens back on to a passageway and after
walking along it for a few minutes you see another
door in the left-hand wall. There is a small window
in the door that looks into a candlelit room in which
a woman sits at a bench with her back to you. You
knock on the door but she does not stand up. If
you want to enter the room, turn to 158. If you wish to
continue walking up the corridor, turn to 281.

323

You arrive at the entrance to a cave in the right-hand
wall of the corridor. Peering in, you see a stone table
and four chairs. A burning candle housed in a large
skull is giving off a dim and eerie light. Asleep in one
of the chairs, and snoring loudly, you see the large
bulk of an Ogre. It must be at least two metres tall. Its
lumpy face is green and its open mouth is drooling
spittle down its hairy chin. It is wearing animal skins
and has a strange necklace made out of rats’ skulls. A
large wooden club leans against the chair, on the back
of which hangs an old leather bag. If you want to
creep into the room to take the bag, turn to 274. If you
want to carry on walking up the corridor, turn to 139.

Cy G3)

324-326

324

Half expecting something terrible to happen, you
grimace as you slide the cord over your head. But
nothing does happen, and you look around to see
Littlebig still staring at the glass ball. If you want to let
him touch it with his dagger, turn to 386. If you want
to leave the cellars and return to the corridor above,
turn to 355.

325
The gold key tums the lock of the gold box. It clicks
open and inside you find a polished stone etched with
the words ‘five dagger’. Turn to 227.

326

With Littlebig’s help, you move the heavy box aside
to reveal a hole in the wall no more than a metre in
diameter. ‘A tunnel!’ shouts Littlebig excitedly. ‘A
secret tunnel! Come on, let’s crawl through it.’ If you
want to crawl through the tunnel, turn to 405. If
you would rather throw a stone down the tunnel first,
turn to 34.

327-328

327
You lift the chest out of the sand pit and see that the
iron hinges and lock are very rusty. One blow with
your sword sends the lock flying through the air.
Wary of traps, you lift the lid slowly and see a pile of
Gold Pieces. You count 27 in total. If you have not
done so already, you may either open the book (turn
to 165) or strike the staff on the floor (turn to 198).
Alternatively you may follow the arrows further (turn

to 248).

328
Although there is less than a thimble-full of liquid in
the bottle, it is actually enough poison to kill twenty
men. It is very quick acting and you fall over uncon-
scious within seconds of drinking it. There is nothing
Littlebig can do to save you. Your adventure is over.

CL) fe

329

pCR MANY / 329
VANS RAN ET 4S 4 . 4 .
ANA wenn)? | wf. The door opens into a small storeroom that is lined
warren yn a% with shelves from floor to ceiling. The shelves are
evirenay ye | 4 crammed with tins, boxes, jars, bottles, pots and

objects of all shapes and sizes. Behind the counter at
the back of the room stands an old man wearing a
white apron. He bids you good day in a friendly voice
and reaches down to produce a small chalkboard on
which is written:

Today’s Specials
Chalk: 1 Gold Piece
Garlic: 1 Gold Piece
Silver Dagger: 3 Gold Pieces
Carved Wooden Duck: 2 Gold Pieces
Pickled Pigs’ Tails: 1 Gold Piece
Skunk Oil 2 Gold Pieces
Wax Candle: 1 Gold Piece
Fish Hook: 1 Gold Piece
Tin Whistle: 1 Gold Piece
Dried Mushrooms: 1 Gold Piece

If you wish to buy any of the items, you must pay
the merchant in gold before leaving the room. Turn
to 262.

330-332

330

Ahead in the corridor, you see the skeletal figure of a
fallen warrior lying face down on the stone floor. He
still clutches his sword in his skeletal hand and his
body has leather armour over a purple tunic. A leather
bag is strapped to his belt and there is a small silver
flask around his neck on a silver chain. If you want to
take a closer look at the items, turn to 143. If you
would rather keep on walking, turn to 212.

331
Luckily for you, the snake’s head necklace is a magic
charm, which counters the evil magic of the helmet.
Add 1 Lucx point. Now instead of draining your life,
the helmet will help defend you in combat. Add 1
SKILL point. Leaving the Skeletons behind, you walk
on down the corridor. Turn to 134.

332

You have drunk the same strong poison that killed the
warrior. The only difference is that he was forced to
drink it by an evil wizard, whereas you drank it of
your own accord! The result, however, is the same.
You sink to your knees, clutching your stomach, as
Littlebig watches on in horror. You slump forward
and lose consciousness, and in less than a minute it’s
all over. Your adventure ends here.

333-334

333
Gripping the staff tightly, you strike its end as hard as

you can against the floor.

‘Hold on to me tightly Littlebig,’ you shout at the top
of your voice. There is an almighty, deafening crack of
thunder, followed by a massive shock wave that rolls
down the corridor like a giant invisible wave. Any-
thing in its path is picked up and rolled along at high
speed, including the evil wizard who attacked you.
Moments later all is quiet again and the wizard is
nowhere to be seen. “That will teach him to attack a
couple of adventurers who meant him no harm,’
mutters Littlebig. ‘Come on, let’s get going,’ you say,
slapping him on the back. ‘There is no time to lose!’
Turn to 291.

334
You teli the Mercenary that you will pay him to

help you. Swinging his mighty two-handed sword
through the air, the Mercenary strides towards the
Uglukk Orc, which is oblivious to the danger behind
it. You watch the long blade rise and then fall heavily
on the Orc’s neck. For a moment its face shows a
surprised look, as the Mercenary’s blow strikes home.
Then its mouth opens as if to scream, but all that
comes out is the blood-gurgling sound of its dying
howl. The Mercenary grunts in satisfaction and holds
out his huge hand to demand payment. If you have 10
Gold Pieces and want to pay him, turn to 379. If you
do not have 10 Gold Pieces or you decide not to pay
him, turn to 223.

EJ 2]

335-338

335
As you walk around the slumbering beast, Littlebig

inadvertently kicks a loose stone across the floor. The
noise echoes noisily around the cave. Test your Luck. If
you are Lucky, turn to 203. If you are Unlucky, tum

to 269.

336
You soon arrive at a formidable-looking iron door in
the left-hand wall. If you want to try to open the door,
turn to 293. If you would rather walk on, turn to 173.

337
Littlebig starts to complain that there is no treasure to

be found in the dragon’s lair. ‘I mean, after all, dragons
are supposed to guard huge hoards of treasure in their
lairs aren’t they? It’s just not fair!’ While half listening
to his latest complaint, you look around the cave and
see a new tunnel entrance that is much larger than the
one from which you emerged. You tell Littlebig not to
give up hope and start walking towards the new
tunnel. Turn to 378.

338

There appears to be no way out of the cavern. You pull
on the iron bars with all your might but your efforts
are futile. There is no way out. You realize that you
will perish when your food and water eventually
run out, or when the poison that you took in the Blue
Pig Taverm has its full effect on you. Your adventure
ends here.

339-341

339
As you attempt to swerve around the Zombie you

stumble over a rock and fall over. The Zombies move
in to surround you and you have no option but to fight
them. Turn to 310.

340
You question your own wisdom to drink water that is
coming from the mouth of such an ugly old crone, but
your hunch is right. The water is pure and has magical
properties. Add 2 STAMINA points. With renewed
energy you walk up the corridor, Turn to 136.

341

You stagger back from the force of the blow and
receive another terrible blast on the back of the head
from the warhammer of the second Littlebig. You drop
to the floor semi-conscious and see both dwarves
standing over you. One of them starts to metamor-
phose before your very eyes. lt turns into a hideous-
looking creature, some two metres tall with scarlet
scales and an oversized, pulsating skull. Its eyes are
large and red-veined, and its mouth is small with
long, protruding lips. Despite your blurred vision
there is no mistaking a Doppelganger. You realize that
you made a mistake and attacked your dwarf friend.
As you lose consciousness you see the Doppelganger
strike Littlebig who is powerless against its mind
control. Your adventure is over.

rd Ey

vo -

342-343

342
You sense something strange about the old man and

watch him carefully as you turn the corner to walk
past. Although you did not know it, the armband
used to belong to a powerful cleric who spent his time
ridding the world of demons. Had the armband not
protected you, the little old man might not have been
as harmless as he appeared. You hurry on until the old
man is out of sight. Turn to 286.

343
As you enter the room, you hear a rustling noise and

see some of the leaves move. You draw your sword
and prepare yourself for combat. Suddenly a small,
sinewy, green GREMLIN jumps out in front of you
brandishing a short sword. He is bare-chested and is
only wearing a loin cloth. He crouches down and then
leaps high into the air straight at you, screaming at the
top of his scratchy voice.

GREMLIN SKILL 4 STAMINA 3
If you defeat the nasty little creature, turn to 395.

344-345

344
You set to work trying to open the rusty padlock with

the picklock. Although you do not possess the skills of
a thief, you manage to open the lock in less than five
minutes. Littlebig is very impressed. You push on the
iron door and it opens out into a stone-walled corri-
dor. Looking right, you see many broken bones strewn
along the corridor floor. Looking left, you just catch
sight of somebody running away and disappearing
around a corner. If you want to examine the bones,
turn to 253. If you want to follow the person who ran
away, turn to 92.

345
The sword was made hundreds of years ago for an

evil necromancer by the name of Razaak. It is a cursed
sword and can only be used by evil wizards who have
the power to control it. As soon as you touch the
handle of the sword, it starts to move of its own
accord. Even though you are holding on tightly to the
handle, the blade starts to move towards your throat!
Beads of sweat roll down your forehead as you strain
to keep the tip of the sword from piercing your flesh.
If you are wearing a gold bracelet, turn to 270. If you
do not have this item, turn to 93.

346-347

346

As you walk further along the corridor, you notice
that the temperature drops significantly. The walls on
both sides are wet and there is a strong acid-like smell
in the air. In the distance you see that the passageway
turns sharply left. Littlebig runs ahead and carefully
peers around the corner. ‘I can’t see very far,’ he
whispers, ‘it’s so misty. Maybe we should go back the
other way?’ If you want to go back, turn to 237. If you
would rather walk on into the mist, turn to 126.

347
You reach into your backpack and pull out the orb.

The moment you touch it, gentle music starts to play.
Ithas an immediate effect on the Ghost, which stops in
its tracks and slowly starts to fade from view. Its
sword clatters to the floor and seconds later the Ghost
has disappeared. Littlebig looks very relieved.
Although uninjured, apart from a nick on his forearm,
he is bathed in sweat from the exertion of combat.
“You search the room,’ he says in short breaths, ‘I need
atest’. You examine all the swords and find one of the
best you have ever seen in your life. You take it and
leave your own behind. Add 1 skILL point. Happy
with your new weapon, you leave the room and walk
on. Turn to 94.

348-350

As you lunge at the old man with your sword, the
painting’s canvas tears and from it leaps a HOWLING
WOLF. Sharp teeth protrude from its slavering
mouth. The old man calls the wolf to rip the flesh from
your bones.

HOWLING WOLF
If you win, turn to 218.

SKILL 7 STAMINA 8

349
Littlebig does all he can to revive you with herbs and

potions that he brought with him from his village.
Eventually the fever subsides and, although weak,
you feel well enough to continue your quest. Lose 1
SKILL point and turn to 148.

350
When you pull on the rope you hear the sound of a

bell ring. It is not very loud, but loud enough to alert
anybody above of your presence. Looking up at the
hole in the ceiling you think you could just about
squeeze yourself through it if you were to climb up
the rope. If this is what you want to do, tum to 8. If
you would rather walk back down the corridor, turn
to 144.

351-353

351

As you shout the words there is a blinding flash
of light. What looks like a shimmering ball of white
light flies from your fingertips and smashes into the
wall opposite the iron door. A hole about a metre in
diameter appears as the two other walls grind steadily
towards each other. You are about to jump through
the hole in the wall when Littlebig calls for you to
wait. ‘Look!’ he shouts. ‘There’s a large emerald lying
in the shards of broken glass!’ If you want to pick up
the emerald, turn to 7. If you would rather not waste
any more time and jump through the hole in the wall,
turn to 183.

352
If you have a potion of healing in your backpack, turn
to 17. If you do not have this potion, turn to 115.

353
You take hold of the arrow with both hands and give
it a sharp tug. Much to your relief, it comes out of
the wall as easily as the spear. Littlebig lets out
another loud cheer and says, ‘Come on, only three to
go!’ But which weapon will be your third choice?
Will you:

Pull the sword? Turn to 18
Pull the dagger? Turn to 251
Pull the axe? Turn to 214

EJ Ee]

354

354
The dimly lit passageway stretches into the distance

as far as you can see. The walls and floor are damp
and there is a musty smell in the air. Littlebig seems
unconcerned by the situation and starts talking loudly,
his words echoing down the passage. ‘I don’t suppose
you ever met my famous uncle Bigleg did you?’ he
asks excitedly. Without waiting for an answer he says,
‘Bigleg died a hero saving the dwarves of Stone-
bridge! That’s the village where I come from too. It’s
just north of where we are now in Darkwood Forest
or, as some folk call it, the Forest of Doom. Bigleg was
a good friend of Yaztromo, the most famous wizard
in Allansia. Now you must have heard of him! Any-
way ...”. Littlebig stops talking mid-sentence when
you see something on fire flying down the corridor
towards you at high speed. It’s a fireball and it's
coming straight at you. “Look out!’ screams Littlebig,
pushing you against the wall. The fireball flies past
you and you watch it explode at the end of the
passage. ‘Missed! I can’t believe it!’ shouts a man in
a gruff voice. You look ahead again to see a man
in purple robes appear out of the smoke with his arms
pointing at you. He is bald and wears a pointed
purple skullcap. His short beard is also pointed and
he looks very angry. He starts to mutter an incan-
tation, readying himself to cast another spell. You are
being attacked by an EVIL WIZARD. Will you:

Attack him with your sword? Turn to 320
Use one of your magic items? Turn to 177
Offer him some gold pieces? Turn to 96

EJ) L]

355-357

355
You soon arrive at an oak door in the right-hand

wall. You press your ear against the door and hear
the sound of metal clashing against metal: possibly the
sound of a sword fight. If you want to open the door,
turn to 42. If you would rather keep walking, turn
to 238.

356
You have only gone a few metres when you run,
literally, into a shower of Death Slime as it senses your
presence. It is impossible to avoid being hit by the acid
jelly and you scream out in pain as it burns through
your skin. There is no escape and you suffer a painful
and unpleasant end. Your adventure is over.

357
You reach out to take the emerald but grab nothing
but air. The jewel is an illusion! The cauldron
suddenly explodes, sending shards of pot and boiling
sludge flying everywhere. Roll 1 die and reduce your
STAMINA by the number rolled. If you are still alive,
turn to 226.

358-360

358
The sword is finely crafted and is made of the finest
steel that you have ever seen in your life. There is an
inscription running down the centre of the blade
which reads ‘Have no fear, skullsplitter is here.’
‘That’s encouraging,’ says Littlebig, ‘I prefer a war-
hammer myself, but go ahead and take it. Enjoy
yourself!’ The skullsplitter sword will definitely aid
you in combat. Add 1 skILv point. If you have not
done so already, you may either open the leather bag
(tum to 114) or uncork the silver flask (turn to 245). The
only other option you have is to walk on (turn to 212).

359
The angry Troll walks slowly towards you swinging

its mighty axe through the air. You breathe in deeply
and charge at the Troll.

TWO-HEADED TROLL
If you win, turn to 43.

SKILL 8 STAMINA 9

360
Unsure as to whether the dwarf you are about to fight
is your friend or a Doppelganger, you wield your
sword more in defence than attack.

LITTLEBIG STAMINA 10

If you win the first Attack Round, turn to 261. If you
lose the first Attack Round, turn to 341.

SKILL &

361-363

361

The room is quite small and crammed with casks,
barrels, boxes, vases, tins, sacks, jars, bottles and pots.
There is quite a bad smell in the room. Littlebig starts
opening some of the jars and tins, and prises the lids
off some of the barrels. ‘Ugh!’ he says grimly, ‘Every-
thing is rotten. All this stuff must have been dumped
in here years ago. The maggots and cockroaches must
love it in here! Shall we go?’ If you want to leave the
storeroom and press on, turn to 346. If you would
rather continue your search of the room, turn to 36.

362

It takes quite a long; time to reach the bottom of the
pit. It is almost pitch black and you can hardly see
anything at all. As your eyes adjust to the gloom
you hear some shuffling sounds coming from in
front of you. Slowly, a vile undead creature lumbers
towards you. Its decaying innards protrude through
holes in its maggot-ridden flesh. Its swollen tongue
hangs down from its sickly purple mouth and its
deep-sunken red eyes stare straight at you. Gurgling
and hissing, the GHOUL steps forward to attack.

GHOUL SKILL 8 STAMINA 7

lf the Ghoul manages to hit you four times, you will be
paralysed and eaten later. If you win, turn to 155.

363
If you are wearing a silver armband, turn to 91. If you
are not wearing a silver armband, turn to 275.

Zao

364-366

364

You find a dirty old sack jammed into a crevice in
the wall of the cavern. You open it and find a large
gold coin inside that has a dragon's head stamped
on one side and an eye on the other side. ‘That's
encouraging,’ says Littlebig excitedly, ‘We must be

close to our goal now.’ You place the coin in
your pocket and walk over to the new tunnel, Turn
to 233.

365
As soon as the door shuts behind you, you hear
the sound of metal grating against stone. Suddenly, the
floor opens up beneath your feet and the corridor
section you are standing on collapses. You slide feet
first down a dark stone chute and are unable to stop
yourself from falling to the bottom. Test your Luck.
If you are Lucky, turn to 105. If you are Unlucky, tum

to 179.

366
It takes the strength of both of you to be able to pull
the lever down and, as you do so, ten floor stones
in the corridor ahead slowly rise up to look like a
crooked line of stepping stones.

‘Now do we walk along the top of the stones or avoid
them like the plague?’ asks Littlebig.

If you want to walk along the top of the stepping
stones, turn to 300. If you want to walk along the
corridor floor, turn to 44.

367-368

367

A voice in your head tells you to use the magic dagger
instead of your sword. You obey the voice and stab
the Sandworm as it lunges at you. The moment you
strike the Sandworm stops, as though frozen in time.
You watch on amazed as the stricken worm starts to
crumble into grains of sand. In less than a minute the
metamorphosis is complete. Turn to 47.

368

Ten minutes later Littlebig gets very excited when he
sees two symbols scratched on the left-hand wall.
‘Secret door!’ he says proudly. ‘That’s what it says.
A secret door right here! Watch this.’ He taps the
symbols with his fingertips and suddenly a door
appears in the wall. It opens by itself into a room that
looks well equipped for comfort. There are chairs and
a table, two beds, shelves piled high with food, water,
books and even sheepskin rugs to cover the stone
floor. ‘It’s a secret dwarf den,’ Littlebig says proudly.
‘It was built so that dwarves in danger could hide and
rest. I haven’t seen this one before. I don’t know about
you but I am tired and very hungry. It must be getting
late and I could do with a good sleep.’ If you want to
sleep in the dwarf den, tum to 123. If you would
rather keep on walking, turn to 330.

CJ EJ

369-370

369
As you lower your hand into the pool, you feel a
terrible burning sensation. The water in the pool
contains transparent flesh-eating jellies to protect
the coins. Lose 2 STAMINA points. You pull your
hand out quickly and run to the door opposite. Turn
to 322.

370

You react quickly and brush the rat off your leg before
it can bite you. Littlebig stamps on it with his large
boot, saying, “You are lucky because that was a Fang
Rat and they are deadly poisonous.’ Then with a
worried look he says, ‘Do you know what? It’s just my
gut feeling, but [ think we are going the wrong way. !
think we should go the way that did a few
minutes ago.’ You decide to take Littlebig’s advice and
go back to the corner where the figure disappeared.
Turn to 206.

371-372

371

You shout back at Littlebig, above the screaming roar
of the Hell Demon, telling him that you do not havea
kris knife. ‘Well, we are going to have to run for it as
we have no hope of defeating a demon with normal
weapons,’ Littlebig shouts at the top of his voice.
‘Quick, run!’

If you want to run down the left-hand corridor, turn to
208. If you want to run down the right-hand corridor,
turn to 180.

372
The Vampire immediately stops in her tracks when
she sees the garlic brandished in your hand. But this
will only stop her for a few moments and you must
decide quickly what to do next. If you wish to leave
the room immediately, turn to 216. If you have a silver
dagger, turn to 163. If you want to attack the Vampire
with your sword, turn to 107.

373-374

373
When you walk into the room, you have a weird

feeling that all the people in the portraits are watching
you. ‘I’m sure the eyes are moving in some of these
paintings,’ whispers Littlebig. ‘I thirk we should get
out of here.’ Will you:

Walk over to the large portrait? Turn to 407
Leave the room and walk on? Turn to 70
Go back to the door with the green

square? Turn to 141

374
Much to your surprise, the door opens into a small

room that is completely empty. As you step inside, the
door closes behind you and the laughter stops. From
nowhere, an old man’s deep voice calmly says,
‘Welcome friend’. If you wish to stay in the room, turn
to 153. If you would rather leave the room quickly and
press on, turn to 283.

RAs 377

375
You are hit in the leg by one of the flying shards of

meta]. Lose 2 STAMINA points. Littlebig helps you to
bandage the wound and can’t resist saying ‘I told you
so’. In some considerable pain, you limp out of the
storeroom and tell Littlebig that you will listen to him
next Gime. Turn to 346.

376

You reach the far side of the cavern where you see a
staircase that has been roughly cut into the wall rise
up some twenty metres to an alcove. ‘Looks like this
could be our only way out of here,’ says Littlebig
looking up. If you want to climb the staircase, turn to
318. If you would rather look for another way out of
the cavern, turn to 219.

377
As your skin tightens and your muscles harden, you

realize there is no hope of survival. The Medusa has
turned you to stone. Your adventure ends here.

378

378

The tunnel is lit by flaming torches and is wide
enough for you to be able to walk along side-by-side.
Although the tunnel runs as straight as an arrow,
there is a steady incline that makes the walk quite
hard work. After fifteen minutes you come to a dead
end where a smooth stone wall blocks the tunnel.
Curiously, five weapons are sticking out of the wall -
a sword, a dagger, an axe, a spear and an arrow. There
are also five small square metal boxes set in the wall
with a keyhole in each one. The doors are no more
than 10 cm square and each is made of a different
metal — silver, iran, bronze, gold and copper. There is
4 rolled up parchment on a wooden shelf nearby on
the tunnel wall that Littlebig picks up, ‘Look, there isa
dragon in gold leaf on this parchment and some
instructions written underneath,’ he says excitedly. Tt
says there is a treasure chamber on the other side of
this sliding wall that is locked by magic. To open it, we
have to pull the weapons out of the wall one by one
in the correct order. The correct order can be found
inside the five metal boxes that can only be opened by
five magic keys of the same metal as the box. That's it.
Sounds simple enough.’ If you have some keys, turn
to 175. If you do not have any keys, turn to 390.
379-381

379
You count out 10 Gold Pieces one by one and give

them to the Mercenary. He stares at you coldly, grunts
once and turns to walk out of the cavern. You decide
to poke around the debris on the floor and find 2 Gold
Pieces, a silver armband and a dark blue bottle with a
cork in it. The rotten smell in the cavern is unbearable
and you must decide what to do. If you want to
uncork the bottle, turn to 24. If you want to leave the
stinking cavern immediately, turn to 76.

380

The hideous beast slumps forward and lands face first
in a shallow pool of its own disgusting slime. All the
insects and worms start to jump or crawl off its body
as it starts to shrivel, hissing and steaming, until it
dissolves into a sticky mound of black jelly. An acrid,
ammonia-like smell from the steam rising from the
jelly fills your nostrils. ‘This is the most disgusting
stink I have ever smelt in my life,’ says Littlebig,
holding his nose. ‘Let’s go before our lungs collapse!’
If you want to leave the cellar and continue your
quest, turn to 355. If you would rather search the
cellar, turn to 230.

381
The room is empty except for the sparkling object,
which you see is a crystal pendant mounted on a
silver chain. If you want to put it around your neck,
turn to 239. Lf you would rather leave the room with-
out the pendant and walk back down the corridor,
turn to 365.

382

382

As the second thief falls to the floor, you see that
Littlebig is locked in combat with the first hooded
figure who came back to rob you. His hood has fallen
back off his head to reveal the face of a man with a
deep scar running from his eyebrow to his chin and
an eye patch over his right eye. He wields his two
daggers deftly, cutting and thrusting at Littlebig. But
the noble dwarf stands his ground and defeats the
thief with a heavy blow to the side of his head. All
three of the thieves own swag bags and their contents
add up to 7 Gold Pieces, a picklock, a silver cross, a
silver pin and two fish hooks. ‘Not much of a haul
from three thieves,’ Littlebig says. ‘But these daggers
are worth having. I was thinking that the one I was
fighting was going to turn out to be Sharcle, but it
wasn’t him. I’d know that evil no-gooder if I saw him
again. But there’s still plenty of time to get even with
him. What goes around comes around!’ After taking
the things you want, you set off again. Turn to 368.

383-385
383

As you look at the cat, its eyes start to sparkle brightly.
You become mesmerized by the sparkling eyes and
are unable to look away. A terrible pain grips your
head. It becomes so unbearable that you pass out.
Lose 2 STAMINA points. When you wake some time
later you see that the cat has completely turned to
dust. Nursing a thumping headache, you leave the
room. Turn to 204.

384

The spider crawls up your back on to your neck and,
before you realize that it is there, it sinks its fangs into
your skin. You cry out in pain and grab your neck, but
there is nothing you can do to stop the poison from
surging through your veins. If you have a Potian of
Healing, turn to 168. If you do not have this potion,
turn to 221.

385

Your energy continues to drain out of you. As you try
to walk on down the corridor, you fall forward and
land flat on your face on the cold stone floor. The
helmet has you completely under its evil control. Your
eyes flutter for a moment as everything around you
fades into darkness. Soon your last breath is gone.
Your adventure is over.

386-387

386

Littlebig barely taps the glass ball with the tip of his
dagger, but it is enough to set off a magic trap! The
ball cracks open and the old iron door slams shut with
a loud bang. You hear an unnerving grating sound
and realize with horror that two of the walls are
slowly closing in on you. Littlebig runs over to the
door but is unable to open it. ‘It’s locked! We are going
to be crushed to death. What are we going to do?’
Littlebig cries with fear in his voice. There appears to
be no other means of escape. Only magic can save you
now. If you know the ‘Hole in the Wall’ spell, turn
to 292. If you do not know this spell, turn to 130.

387

You follow the arrows around a left-hand bend in the
corridor until you reach another junction. The arrows
lead down the corridor to your right. Looking to your
left you see that the corridor ends at a cavern with a
sunken floor that is full of sand. Several objects are
sticking out of the sand but it is hard to tell what they
are. There is a shovel lying on the sand in the centre of
the pit. If you want to grab the shovel and dig out the
objects from the sand, turn to 290. If you would rather
follow the arrows, turn to 248.

388-390
388

Hanging on to the writhing snake with one hand, you
attempt to hack off its tail as it darts in and out trying
to coil itself around you. Roll two dice. If the number
rolled is the same or less than your SKILL score,
turn to 125. If the number rolled is greater than your
SKILL score, turn to 22.

389
You take a step back before charging at the door. Roll

two dice. If the total is the same or less than your
SKILL, the door flies qpen (turn to 26). If the total is
greater than your SKILL, the door does not give
way and all you succeed in doing is injuring your
shoulder. Lose 1 sTAMINA point. You may try again
if you wish or you may choose to return to the junction
in the corridor (turn to 88).

399
Knowing that you are about to pull one of the
weapons from the wall, Littlebig walks up to you and
gives you two slaps on the back in encouragement.
‘Good luck,’ he says solemnly. ‘I’m sure you'll choose
the right one.’ Will you:

Pull the sword? Turn to 106
Pull the dagger? Turn to 280
Puil the axe? Turn to 321
Pull the spear? Turn to 298
Pull the arrow? Turn to 157

394-392

394
The dragon drops on to the stone floor with a dull
thump. It begins to lose its three-dimensional shape
and is soon nothing more than a red stain on the floor.
If you have not done so already, you may either pick
up the black sword (turn to 345) or read the scroll
(turn to 86). If you would rather climb back down the
rope and walk back down the corridor, turn to 144.

392
The deadly spider’s fangs puncture the skin on the
back of your hand. Its poison is powerful and takes
effect quickly. Lose 1 SKILL point and 4 STAMINA
points. [f you are still alive, turn to 228.

393-394

393

You enter a small room that is brightly lit by many
burning candles, which have been stuck on. top of just
about every available flat surface. There are two glass
tables with mirrored tops on which stand twenty or so
bottles with wax-sealed corks and handwritten labels.
Standing between the two tables is one of the most
beautiful girls you have ever seen in your life. She is
wearing black baggy silk pants and a short white top.
Her bare shoulders are draped by long blonde hair. A
large sparkling diamond covers her navel and she
wears another one around her neck on a gold chain.
A small bottle rests on the open palm of her left
hand. She stares at you instantly with her ice-blue
eyes while showing just the slightest hint of a smile,
and says ina soft voice, ‘If you need a cure, my potions
are pure.’ She then motions for you to drink from the
bottle in her hand. Will you:

Drink from the bottle? Turn to 11
Attack her with your sword? Turn to 244
Politely refuse her offer and leave the

room? Turn to 265

394
You step on the ladder and start your descent. If
you have recently drunk the water in the cavern pool,
turn to 282. If you have not drunk this water, turn
tO 135.

Cy GI

395-396

395
Hidden by the plants at the back of the room, you find

a wooden cupboard fixed to the wall. It is also painted
green. You open the cupboard and see a smail jar on
the shelf. The jar contains a green paste that smells as
bad as the plants, and you assume the paste is made of
crushed leaves. If you want to eat some of the leaf
paste, turn to 278. If you would rather leave the room
and continue walking up the corridor, turn to 142.

396
Lo Lo Mai stares at you intensely as you walk past her.
The door opens into a corridor that goes straight on
for as far as you can see. You soon come to two doors
next to each other in the left-hand wall. The first door
has a green square painted on it and the next one has a
blue triangle painted on it. Will you:

Open the door with the green square? Turn to 141
Open the door with the blue triangle? Turn to 53
Keep on walking along the corridor? Turnto7o

397-399

397
Holding the shield firmly in front of you, you crouch
down behind it as the fireball hits. Only your hand is
burned where it is holding the red-hot shield. Lose 1
STAMINA point. You stand up quickly and attack the
Wizard, who is now forced to defend himself with a
short sword made of an unusually dark metal.

EVIL WIZARD

If you lose an Attack Round, turn to 81. If you win
without losing an Attack Round, turn to 113.

SKILL 8 STAMINA 8

398
You pass the oak door, the stone throne and the foun-
tain, and finally arrive at the junction. Ignoring the
passageway to the left, up which you walked, you
press on. Tur to 54.

399

You step over the broken bones of the Skeleton King
and look inside the coffin. There is a lot of dirt and
debris but also something that looks very interesting.
It is a golden orb that has two bands of diamond-
shaped pieces of mother of pearl running around it. If
you want to pick up the orb, turn to 205. If you would
rather leave it where it is and walk on, turn to 156.

Le] fd

400

400

Clutching at a deep wound in his stomach, Sharcle
drops to his knees and pleads for mercy. You ignore
him and tend to Littlebig, who is still alive, but has
lost a lot of blood. You see Sharcle’s leather bag on the
ground and find a bottle inside with the words
‘Healing Potion’ written on a label. ‘Give it to me,’
pleads Sharcle.

‘Drink . . yourself,’ whispers Littlebig to you.
There is Tess than a teaspoonful left in the bottle but
you have no doubt who is going to drink it. You press
the bottle to Littlebig’s lips and tell him to drink. One
gulp is enough and the potion is gone. In less than ten
minutes Littlebig is up on his feet and fully recovered.
Sharcle, meanwhile, is now slumped over and silent.
Litttebig presses his ear against Sharcle’s chest to
listen to his breathing. ‘Nothing. He’s had it. He’s a
dead dog. But let’s not cry over that. Come on my
friend, I’ve got to get you to Stonebridge. We have
some powerful healers there who can deal with most
poisons.’ Two days later, you are welcomed by the
dwarf villagers of Stonebridge. The whole village is
celebrating King Gillibran’s birthday. Joining him
in his celebrations is the Grand Wizard of Yore,
Yaztromo, who has made a rare visit. News of your
quest spreads quickly through the village and you are
invited with Littlebig to join Yaztromo and the King at
his table for a feast. Littlebig recounts the whole
adventure in great detail and asks Yaztromo if he has
any antidotes for slow-acting poison. Yaztromo looks
at you and says slowly in a deep voice, ‘Poisoned?

CJ] E3

401-404

You're not poisoned. If you had drunk slow-acting
poison you would be near death by now. That was just
another of Sharcle’s lies to make sure you came back
to him. Forget about it and enjoy yourself.’ With good
friends and a golden dragon worth more than you
could ever have imagined, it would be difficult not to
enjoy yourself. And so you do.

401

You just manage to run out of the room and slam the
door in the Ghost’s face. ‘Come on!’ shouts Littlebig,
‘Let's go!’ Needing no encouragement, you hurry
along the corridor. Turn to 94.

402
You recite the magic spell as loud as you can, but to
your horror the walls carry on grinding towards each
other. Turn to 130.

403
As you run past the Skeletons, they both take a swipe
at you with their swords. Test your Luck. If you are
Lucky, turn to 246. If you are Unlucky, turn to 207.

404
You try charging down the door together, but all you

manage to do is to injure your shoulder. Lose
1 STAMINA point. You finally give up and walk to
the corner where you saw the figure disappear. Tum
to 206.

405-406
495

Littlebig sighs and says, ‘I suppose I had better go
first, seeing as I am smaller than you.’ You watch him
disappear into the dark tunnel on his hands and
knees, and follow him after a few moments. Two
minutes later, Littlebig calls back to tell you that he
has come to the end of the tunnel and that it leads into
a cavern. Then you hear him scream. You crawl as fast
as you can until you reach the end of the tunnel.
Without stopping, you stand up and find yourself ina
small cavern with rough, sandstone walls. Expecting
to see Littlebig locked in combat with some fearsome
creature, you are not prepared for what you do see.
Running to attack you are two identical dwarves, both
the exact likeness of Littlebig. One of them must
surely be a Doppelginger that has tumed itself into a
duplicate of Littlebig and used mind control to force
him to attack. But which one is the Doppelganger and
which one is the real Littlebig? You have seconds to
decide before they are upon you. If you want to fight
the Littlebig to your left, turn to 97. If you want to
fight the Littlebig to your right, turn to 360.

406

You are about five metres up the rope when suddenly
the bottom of it starts to curl upwards to wrap itself
around your body. It is not a rope that you are holding
on to but a dreaded HANGING SNAKE that is able to
disguise itself cleverly. You must decide quickly what
to do. If you want to drop to the floor, turn to 73. If you
would rather use your sword to hack at the snake,
turn to 388.

EW El

407
407

Suddenly the door closes behind you with a loud
bang. You spin around to see two framed canvases
hanging on the wall on either side of the door.
Curiously the canvases are blank. But then you notice
outline images start to appear on both of them. At
the same time you feel an uncomfortable tingling
sensation in your fingers and toes. The canvases soon
turn into portraits, as though some invisible artist is
painting them quickly. Then you recognize the people
in the portraits — it is Littlebig and you! You try to run
for the door but are now too weak to move. You look
at Littlebig and are alarmed to see that he is no more
than a shadow of his former self. You look down at
your body and see that it is virtually transparent. You
are both disappearing into another dimension and
only your portraits will remain in this world. Your
adventure is over.

IAN LIVINGSTONE

EYE OF THE

A Fighting Fantasy Gamebook

in which, YOU are tle hero!

y

r

ie
a

FIGHTING

KEAL by, ;

www.fightingfantasy.com

Visit the Fighting Fantasy website for...

‘ |
AciWVi

+t) i i fg shea | ‘ Club!

Latest news on
Fighting Fantasy Gamebooks and events

\ * vy | Ht
lian |
Competitions and games

: ’

Download screensavers, wallpaper, masks,
doorhangers, bookmarks and much more...

=
= be
; ~
S's =
—_ ‘ bs
> + _ pe
>
—
=o
—s if
s) - ¥
~
= >
b- =
& ~ el.
> ‘ —
a =
———
OS
5 >
oo r ~
<_ fu -_
~ " _-
——————— -_—“
. =
r-

[AN LIVINGSTONE

EYE OF THE

- > 4 »*
= hi

ILLUSTRATED BY MARTIN McKENNA

»

u!

Wizard Books

=
= 2z-= ona
£ nea So Sim > 4
ad a an :, 4 __: re
2 - ==: ~~ “
— >= = -4e_ pepe
< F425 A's
= = Ces > a
= — — — r=
= x = FF : — « a
<a = > f | ,
- =(t,-=)- s'est ee |
— a, . ~~ od i _—— 4
a 2 >. aren,
: = 4 —s >”
ay

EYE OF THE IAN LIVINGSTONE
DRAGO EYE OF THE

\F)

irs

aNoisoM
