I-3

1
Still laughing, the ruffians advance towards you.
Apart from the Half-Ogre, there is a well-built

gle ai Jeet bearded man, missing most of his teeth, and a leaner
Hiya yg 4 Nj 12 genie erties rogue with two ugly red scars running down the
i ae p- right-hand side of his face. Will you:

Try to escape? Turn to 135
Charge one of the pirates? Turn to 357

Stand firm and prepare to fight the

rogues? Turn to 74
2

On your trek through the jungle you come upon two
strange plants. One is a large bush with serrated-
edged leaves and the other is a palm-like tree, the
fronds of which are striped orange and black. The
leaves of the Blade Bush are strong enough to be used
as weapons so if you have lost your sword you may
break off a Blade Leaf to use instead. The Tiger Palm is
known to help in the healing of wounds. You may
take some of the fronds which when applied to
injuries after one battle will restore up to half the
STAMINA points lost in that battle. Having taken what
you want, turn to the paragraph with the number you
noted down previously.

*? Sw

i aa a fie
i _ f , Baas nt gh hae oe)
hi ‘eit iy! Ha vate! a
La

i x» mi NAGATA
ie if All il ag | y ci ful '

ae 3
I Mg The Troll possesses nothing that might help you in

vif re

nt Hjltateieen bat Hp pi sii mi ae, : hex it your quest. Leaving the body lying in the filthy water,

Wie “at vi men fe mit =, wae vy. lies atgtt you set about trying to find a way out of this stinking

tet, ani tet atl ntact iggy hole. Test your Luck. If you are Lucky, turn to 171. If
you are Unlucky, turn to 193.

rd GC]
4-5

4
After your encounter with the soul-chilling spirit you
just want to leave the room as quickly as you can.
Slamming the door to the cabin shut behind you, will
you:

Open the right-hand door? Turn to 202

Go down into the hold? Turn to 26

Leave the ship? Turn to 72
5

Studying the Arcanum, it soon becomes apparent that
it is Erasmus the Wizard’s Book of Spells. You find
several charms which you think you might be able to
learn. However, you only have time to learn one from
the following list.

Fortune’s Favour ~— casting this spell restores up to 3
LUCK points.

Trueskill — once cast, the next time you have to Test
your Skill you can avoid the roll and take it as if you
were successful.

Voodoo Vexer — whenever you are attacked by
Zombies, casting this spell will repel 1-3 of them
(roll one dice and halve the result, rounding fractions
down) so you do not have to fight them.

Insect Repellent — if ever you are bothered by insects,
regardless of their size, this spell will keep them away
from you so that you can avoid combat.

Each time you cast a spell you must reduce your
STAMINA score by 2 points. Now will you:

6-7

Look at the Mythica? Turn to 47
Examine the potions more closely? Turn to 217
Leave the cell? Turn to 385

6
Taking flight, you hear a sharp crack behind you and
then find yourself falling forwards as the Half-Ogre’s
whip wraps around your ankles and your feet are
pulled from beneath you. Lose 2 sTAMINA points.
Dropping his whip, the Half-Ogre moves in to attack
you with his club.

HALF-OGRE

If the Half-Ogre wins an Attack Round, roll one dice.
On a roll of 6, the blow from his club knocks you off
your feet. This means that you spend the next round
of combat getting up again, so you must reduce your
Attack Strength by 2 points for that Attack Round. If
you kill the Half-Ogre, turn to 328.

SKILL 8 STAMINA 9

7

“You're too late,’ gasps Ramatu with his dying breath.
‘The ritual is complete; Cinnabar is invulnerable.’
And then he is dead. You have rid the world of the
evil Ramatu, Quezkari’s servant — congratulations!
Regain 1 LUCK point. There is no time to lose,
Cinnabar must be on his way back to the Port of Crabs
right now! As you prepare to leave the temple in
pursuit of the Pirate-Lord you catch sight of the altar
at the base of Quezkari’s statue. On it is a fetish of the
dark god-spirit and a sparkling, fist-sized pearl. Do
vou want to:

Pl Ed
8~9

Pick up the fetish? Turn to 210
Take the pearl? Turn to 388
Leave the temple immediately? Turn to 188

8

The ward you have chosen is in fact a Spirit Jewel,
which has the power to drain the unearthly energies
of denizens of the Ethereal Plane. When you finally
confront Quezkari reduce his skILL score by 3 points
and his STAMINA by 6 and regain 1 LUCK point.
Hissing in anger, the Arch-Spirit advances on you.
Turn to 177.

Beneath a brightly painted banner, bearing his name,
sits the Amazing Armarno. The man has the look of a
Lendlelander about him, with sallow skin, slanting
eyes and a long, thin moustache. He is performing a
trick with three playing cards and has attracted a
small crowd of curious onlookers. Two of the cards
are black, one is white, and the aim of the game seems
to be to guess which of the cards is the white one
when they have been shuffled and laid face down on
the small table in front of the man. To play the game
you have to place a stake of 2 Gold Pieces to win a
potential prize of 10 Gold Pieces, although at the
moment no one seems to be having much luck against
Armarno. If you want to play, turn to 32: if not you
can either move on to the Arrow of Providence (turn
to 81) or Calabrius’s Calculator (turn to 294), or leave
the Gambling Pits altogether (turn to 207).

10-11

10

Coming to the edge of an escarpment you find
yourself looking out over the sparkling waters of a
large lagoon, linked to the sea by a narrow channel on
the far side. And sure enough, at anchor in the bay is
the Virago itself, flying the skull and crossbones.
Hearing a noise behind you, you look round to see
four scurvy-looking characters advancing on you,
weapons at the ready. “You'll not be getting away this
time,’ sneers one of them and then the pirates charge
at you. Fight them two at a time.

SKILL STAMINA
IORGA THE BEAR 9 10
BEASTFACE 8 8
THE BOSUN 9 9
ONE-EYED LAGAN 10 7

If you defeat all your assailants, you decide that you
have nothing to gain by trying to board the Virago and
so set off for the Temple of Quezkari where you are
sure the ritual to resurrect Cinnabar is to be
completed. Turn to 115.

11

The old wisewoman explains that to consult the
spirits about your future you must give up some of
your life-blood. If you agree to this, turn to 160. If not,
you will either have to choose that Madame Galbo
heals your wounds (turn to 179) or that she prepares a
compound that might be of use to you on your quest
(turn to 261).
12-14

12
You hurl the powdered mixture in the undead pirate’s
face (cross it off your Adventure Sheet). The corpse’s
face distorts, not in pain but with laughter. ‘You're
going to need more than parlour tricks to stop Jolly
Roger,’ the macabre creature chuckles horribly. Turn
tO 147.

13

The tunnel soon ends at a closed door. From beyond
it, you hear the sound of something large moving
around and there is an almost overpowering musky
animal odour. Boldly, you fling open the door. The
monster that is trapped inside the room immediately
turns to face you. It looks like a huge predatory cat
with a fiery red coat and mane, a ridge of spikes
growing from its spine, and huge fangs. Lashing
behind the beast are several long, snake-like tails,
each ending in a stinging barb. This is truly a cat-o’-
nine-tails! You are somehow going to have to get past
this monster if you are to find the Pirates of the Black
Skull. Do you want to attack it with your sword (turn
to 78) or will you try to distract the beast by throwing
it some food (turn to 162)?

a4
You make your offering to the God of Pride (deduct
the Gold Pieces from your Adventure Sheet). You auto-
matically feel filled with renewed confidence and a
sense of optimism. Vinar’s blessing has been con-
ferred upon you. Restore up to 2 LUCK points. Turn
to 209.

Ce} Gd
15-16

15
Captain Velyarde engages in combat with a lithe,
well-dressed pirate while you find yourself
challenged by a man built like a gorilla, and carrying a
battle-axe. Hobbes, the Virago’s First Mate, is a
veteran of countless sea battles.

FIRST MATE HOBBES
If you win, turn to 298.

SKILL 8 STAMINA 8

16

To try to avoid unwanted attention and in order to
remain as inconspicuous as possible, you decide to
wait until nightfall before investigating potential
locations for the pirates’ base. Add 2 Hours. Where
will you begin your search? Around the docks (turn to
67), at the ruined lighthouse on the promontory to the
southeast of the port (turn to 146), in the taverns and
inns of the city (turn to 150), in the sewers beneath the
port (turn to 355), at the cemetery outside the city
walls (turn to 83), or in the Temple Quarter (turn to
181)?

17-19
17

You are passing a shop window containing a display
of old maps and scrolls when you suddenly remem-
ber the cryptic message you overheard in the
Gambling Pits, referring to Bone Island. Pausing, you
take a closer look at the shop. Above the decorative
window is a sign painted with the words: ‘Mundi
Pelago — Cartographer. Accurate and Attractive Maps
and Charts.’ Surely a mapmaker would be as good a
person as any to ask about an island. Do you want to
enter the shop (turn to 288), or will you go on your
way (turn to 334)?

18
The stench of sulphur is too much for you and you
misplace your next step. You land in the boiling mud
and, before you can drag yourself out of the pool,
manage to swallow some of it! Lose 2 STAMINA points
and turn to 194.

19 3

‘Have it your own way,’ Snide declares before
leaving. Nobody comes to your cell that night, so you
do not have an opportunity to bluff your way out of
this predicament and the door is far too sturdy to
break down. By the time you do get out of this
dungeon you will be far too late to stop the Pirates of
the Black Skull. Thanks to a grave injustice, you have
failed in your mission.

EJ Ee]
20-22

20

Leaving the pygmies’ lifeless bodies you continue
further along the passageway, only to discover that it
reaches a dead-end at a rock fall. It looks like the cave-
in happened fairly recently. Do you want to see if you
can shift some of the stones and force a way through
the rock fall (turn to 140) or would you rather return
to the entrance to the temple and choose an
alternative route (turn to 166)?

21

Leaving the bats’ chamber you continue along the
tunnel. Suddenly your lantern illuminates a horrify-
ing scene: a mouldering human skeleton hangs
impaled on a row of spears that jut out from one wall
of the tunnel. Too late you wonder if you may have
strayed too far this time. The next second there is a
whooshing, whistling sound and you react instantly.
Test your Skill. If you succeed, turn to 196. If you fail,
turn to 138.

22

‘You must be joking!’ laughs the guard. “Now clear off
before I forget I’m having a good day.’ Do you want to
persist in trying to enter the Old Fort (turn to 49) or

23-24
will you leave, if somewhat reluctantly, and go
elsewhere (add 1 Hour and turn to 334)?

23

Seeing you wielding the bone sword, Zyteea calls out,
‘Nightdeath, aid us now!’ Instantly, the blade glows
with magical fire! You strike the thing with your
curious weapon and it lets out a shrill cry of pain.
Dropping the tribesman, the shadowy beast turns on
you. Without further hesitation you attack the
conjured voodoo spirit.

SPIRIT-BEAST
If you win, turn to 277.

SKILL 10 STAMINA 12

24
As he leads you through the trees, Balinac tells you
about his master. Apparently he was a wizard named
Erasmus who lived in a secluded cell on the island.
Originally the wizard came from a place called Halak
in Allansia but he left the city to escape from the
hustle and bustle of everyday life. You soon come to a
small stone building in a clearing in the jungle,
partially submerged in the earth. Inside, the place is in
a state of disrepair and there is no sign of Erasmus.
You ask Balinac where his master is and are surprised
and confused by his reply: ‘Master dead. Killed by
voodoo man from skull face in the mountains. Balinac
not go there.’ Loping over to a straw-filled wooden
box, Balinac says, ‘Magical wine here. Master had
magic books too,’ and he points to a desk in one corner
of the room. On it lie two weighty tomes, one entitled

CJ] Es
:
i

ww NAN

rarer
ed 0

4 Ab
~ a ‘ 7

25-26

the Mythica and the other the Arcanum. There might
well be something here that could help you in your
quest. Do you want to:

Examine the potions? Turn to 217

Study the Mythica? Turn to 47

Read the Arcanum? Turn to 5

Leave the cell and Balinac? Turn to 385
25

You step through the door and all too late notice a
movement in the shadows either side of you. A heavy
cosh hits you across the back of your head and you
lose consciousness immediately. Turn to 158.

26

The hold is illuminated by a phantasmal glow and as
you look around you, the ghostly figures of the dead
crew emerge from the shadows to surround you.
Unable to escape, you wait for the undead’s next
move. The spectral sailors part and their cursed
captain enters the ring. His eyes blaze like ship’s
lanterns and he wields a very real-looking, rusty
cutlass in one hand. ‘If you want to leave this ship,’ he
says in a booming voice like slamming crypt doors,
‘you must best me, Captain Velyarde, in single
combat. Unsheathe your weapon and prepare to
fight!’ With that, the ghost wildly attacks.

CAPTAIN VELYARDE SKILL 10 STAMINA 10
If you win, turn to 395.

EJ CE]

27-28

27
Before you even reach Dead Men’s Gate, a mass of
figures emerge from out of the darkness and you are
set upon by a crowd of pirates and black-robed
Devotees. Soon overpowered, you are coshed over the
head and knocked out. Turn to 158.

28
Your attackers are Mask Zombies, created through
dark voodoo rituals to be guards and servants in
Quezkari’s temple. The Zombies thrust at you with
their flint-spears as you unsheathe your own weapon.

SKILL STAMINA
First MASK ZOMBIE 8 6
Second MASK ZOMBIE 8 6

If you win, turn to 265.

29-30
29

Despite being exquisitely made and_ incredibly
detailed, there does not seem to be anything unusual
about the ship. Of course, you could always try
smashing the bottle to examine the model more
closely, although this would probably make a lot of
noise and possibly alert others on the ship to your
presence. If you want to smash the bottle, turn to 293.
If not, will you:

Look at the globe? Turn to 349
Open the chest? Turn to 316
Examine the desk? Turn to 134
Leave the cabin? Turn to 233

30
Your battle over, you suddenly find yourself
surrounded by Mask Zombies. Unable to take on all
of the Voodoo Priest’s undead slaves you soon find
yourself restrained and dragged from the Scarachna’s
web-lair. Hauled into the inner sanctum of the
temple, you are brought before Ramatu, the High
Priest of Quezkari. At one end of the chamber is a
statue of the voodoo death-god, just as in the shrine
back in the Port of Crabs, only this one is even larger
and more macabre. The High Priest himself is an
intimidating figure. He wears crimson and scarlet
robes, no doubt dyed in blood, a feathered headdress
like that of Quezkari and a necklace of shrunken
human heads. On his chest is the tattoo of a huge
black skull, and in one hand he is holding an up-
turned human skull full of a foul green liquid.

rd Ey

31-32

‘Intruder, he says, speaking for the first time, “you
have trespassed within the Temple of the Dark One.
As punishment, you must drink the Ichor of
Quezkari!’ Held in the tight grip of the Mask Zombies
your mouth is forced open and the foul liquid is
poured down your throat and you are made to
swallow. Immediately you are assailed by all manner
of phantasmal creatures; cruel jeering spirits and
grotesque half-human things. Test your Skill. If you
fail, turn to 62. If you succeed, turn to 248.

31

Gulping down the potion, you grab hold of the
portcullis with both hands and heave! Disregard the
bonus the potion normally adds to your Attack
Strength and turn to 99.

32

You do not have to wait long for your turn. (Deduct 2
Gold Pieces from your Adventure Sheet.) Eagle-eyed,
you watch closely as the man shows you where the
white card is and then places all the cards face down
on the table. He deftly switches their positions at an
incredible speed, but you keep concentrating on the
white card. When he finally stops, you point to the
card you are sure is the white one. With a smile,
Armarno turns it over and reveals it to be black. You
have a sneaking suspicion that the Amazing Armarno
is conning you. Do you want to challenge the trickster
about this suspected fraud (turn to 258), play another
game, just to be sure (turn to 118) or will you move on
from this stand (turn to 223)?

33-34

33
Running hell-for-leather, you round a corner and run
straight into more of Cinnabar’s pirates. You are soon
overcome. Receiving a blow to the back of your head

from a heavy cosh, you lose consciousness... Turn
to 158.

i"
|

‘ \
4 Veh ‘Cl watt KX Vk b

A Met al cata. SA

ig
iN \,

34
Your weapon is taken from you and you are taken toa

pit into which you are lowered while a bamboo gate
on the other side is raised. Instantly, a snarling Jaguar
springs into the pit and lashes out at you with its
claws. Unarmed, you must wrestle the predatory cat
with your SKILL reduced by 2 points for this fight.

JAGUAR SKILL 8 STAMINA 7

However, if you win two consecutive Attack Rounds,
or reduce the Jaguar’s STAMINA to 2 points or less,

LC] fd

35-36

turn to 394. If the cat reduces your STAMINA score to 3
points or less first, the Jaguar is held at bay and you
are rescued from the pit and have your weapon
returned (turn to 194).

35
You manage to dodge the pan of scalding water as it

sails past your head. But now you are going to have to
deal with the enraged Bladderwrack. A meat cleaver
gripped tightly in one podgy hand, the cannibal cook
charges at you, his rolls of fat wobbling disgustingly.

BLADDERWRACK
THE COOK

If you defeat the cook, turn to 285.

SKILL 8 STAMINA 10

36

Pulling back the pirate flag you prise open the nailed
lid of the coffin. You gasp and take a step back on
seeing that the coffin is still occupied. Lying within is
the body of a pirate still wearing a tricorn hat and
ragged waistcoat. The dead man’s hands are crossed
on his chest, and in its rigour mortis-locked fingers
the corpse clutches a golden talisman fashioned to
look like a scorpion. The most peculiar thing about the
pirate’s corpse is that despite being trapped within a
sealed coffin and left in an abandoned room, apart
from having a rather unhealthy grey pallor to its skin,
it does not look like it has really begun to decay at all.
What will you do now? Do you want to take the Scorpion
Talisman from the corpse (turn to 89), or would you
rather leave this unsettling place (turn to 166)?

37

There is a rustling amongst the frond-like leaves of a’
tree in front of you and suddenly you find yourself
looking into two yellow eyes, with black slits for
pupils. You stop and stare as an angular green face
emerges from amidst the vegetation. You are facing a
tiny humanoid with cat-like eyes and spindly, twig-
like limbs. The little creature is wearing a startling
headdress of parakeet feathers, a grass skirt and is
holding a javelin in one bony hand. The tiny
humanoid puts its head on one side and smiles
broadly at you before holding out its empty hand
towards you. How will you respond to this action?
Will you:

Offer the creature some food? Turn to 348
Give the creature an item from your

backpack? Turn to 122
Attack the creature? Turn to 307
Ignore the creature and go on your

way? Turn to 384

38

38

Rubbing the serrated edges of the teeth against the
rope, with the bracelet on your wrist, you soon cut
through the strands. You free yourself just before the
water filling the pit covers your head. Climbing out
of a potentially watery grave, you find your back-
pack and sword dumped nearby — nothing has been
taken (regain 1 LUCK point). Without further delay,
hurriedly you head off after the pirates. You soon find
yourself at the edge of a huge natural cavern, inside
which the sea has formed a large bay. At the far end of
the cave is an entrance large enough to admit a sailing
vessel, And sure enough, moored to a jetty at the edge
of the water, is a great galleon. The ship flies the skull
and crossbones flag common to all pirate vessels and
instead of a figurehead, you are disturbed to see a
human skeleton bound to the bowsprit. Before you
see the name Virago painted on its side you know that
this is Cinnabar’s galleon which was supposed to
have sunk. You can see the Pirates of the Black Skull
milling around on the deck, but there is no-one left on
the jetty — the Virago must be ready to sail. Keeping
yourself hidden in the shadows of the cave, you
watch as the anchor is raised and Cinnabar’s galleon
starts to make its way out to sea. Then you see a way
to stop your quarry escaping you. A porthole in the
side of the ship has been left open and a knotted rope
hangs down from the deck next to it. Quickly you
make a dash for the jetty and, remaining unspotted,
climb the rope, slipping silently in through the
opening.

39

You find yourself inside a small, disused storeroom.
You decide to lay low here for a while before
exploring the ship. Stowed away on board you watch
through the porthole as the Virago leaves the Port of
Crabs behind under cover of darkness. When you are
sure the coast is clear you creep out of the room into a
corridor. To your right is a door with the brass plaque
‘Captain’ fixed to it. At the far end of the corridor a
staircase descends into the galleon. Another passage
runs off from the first to your left, with a door at its far
end and two unmarked doors to the left and right.
Will you:

Open the far door? Turn to 191
Open the door to the left? Turn to 127
Open the door to the right? Turn to 141
Open the door marked ‘Captain’? Turn to 97

Descend the staircase? Turn to 211

39

inhaling great lungfuls of the smoke you start to think
that you can see skeletal faces hovering around you,
filling you with a sense of enormous unease. You
sweep at the apparitions with your sword, but to no
avail. These are horrors of your own imagining and
cannot be harmed by physical weapons. Afflicted by
this terrible, paranoid fear, while you remain in the
temple you must reduce your SKILL by 1 point. Turn
to 185.

Ey Ey

40-41

40
As you approach the gate, out of the corner of your
eve you notice a movement in a darkened alleyway.
Instantly, two figures step out into the street in front
of you. One is a gaunt-looking character, holding a
cruel sabre and with a frayed noose around his neck.
cael LA a) 6, oR The other is an attractive Khulian woman with her
wl es "| Se El eR ti long, shining, black hair twisted into a plait, wearing
ai (i i finely-made leather armour and wielding a thin
sword. You recognise the first of your assailants from
tales you have heard on your travels. He is the
notorious pirate Silas Gallows. His companion is Wu-
Lin, a mercenary who joined Cinnabar’s crew not
long before the pirate-lord was killed. Both bear the
msignia of the Pirates of the Black Skull. ‘So here we
are at Dead Men’s Gate,’ chuckles Silas Gallows, ‘and
soon there’s gonna be one more corpse in Corpse
Way!’ Wu-Lin says nothing but advances towards
you, her gleaming blade raised. Fight them both at the
same time.

SKILL STAMINA
SILAS GALLOWS 7 7
WU-LIN 8 6

If you win, not wanting to meet any more of Cinna-
bar’s cronies, you hurry out of the city. Turn to 119.

41

‘Ho ho, yes that'll do nicely,’ chuckles the castaway,
and proceeds to tell you that the treasure is hidden in
a system of caves west of his camp. ‘Mind you,’
Scrimshaw adds, ‘Blackscar’s hoard is cursed. Those

rd Ed
,

i i}!

oe |

42

are pearls that were his eyes. Any thief who tries to
steal it will get all they deserve. Don’t say I didn’t
wam you.’ With that the mad old man skips off,
pleased with his present, ignoring you completely.
Will you now set off to find Blackscar’s treasure (turn
to 110) or look for signs of Cinnabar’s pirates (turn
to 208)?

42

You are enticed towards the Bazaar by its colourful
stalls, as well as the sounds and smells of far-off
countries. You ignore the rolls of silk and the baskets
of spices but are attracted to a brightly decorated
stall covered in a variety of unusual items. Talking
with the vendor, you discover that the man is a
Talismonger — a trader in artefacts that are allegedly
magical. However, by the look of some of the objects,
you do wonder if they really are charged with esoteric
power. The magical items the Talismonger has on
offer are listed below with their prices. You may buy
as many of them as you want, as long as you have
enough Gold Pieces.

Ivory Lion Charm 7 Gold Pieces Turn to 301
Shark’s Teeth Bracelet 5 Gold Pieces Turn to 170
Magical Compass 9 Gold Pieces Turn to 59

Potion of Giant-Strength 8 Gold Pieces Turn to 374

Lock of Elvin’s Hair 6 Gold Pieces Turn to 165
Carved Darkwood
Armband 4 Gold Pieces Turn to 399

Once you have made your purchases, turn to 200.

43-44

The combination of the noise from your battle and the
shrieks of the bats amplified by the echoing chamber
cause several of the stalactites to crack and fall from
the roof. You are immediately caught in a rockfall.
Roll one dice, add 2 to the roll and deduct the total
from your STAMINA score. If you survive the cave-in
will you risk going further into the caves (turn to 21)
or turn back and give up on finding Blackscar’s
treasure (turn to 279)?

44
You suddenly realise what the Witchdoctor is up

to: he is trying to cloud your mind with magic.
Concentrating hard, you step into the chalk circle,
breaking Malu’s spell. Almost on top of the man, you
cannot avoid combat as he springs to his feet and
lunges at you with his wand.

MALU THE
WITCHDOCTOR

If the Witchdoctor strikes you, the wand drains 3
points of STAMINA from you rather than the usual 2. If
you kill Cinnabar’s servant, turn to 366.

SKILL 9 STAMINA 8

45-47

45
Although you cut down several of the Zombies,
ultimately there are too many of them for one warrior
to vanquish alone. Your adventure is over.

46
Grasping you with its powerful limbs, the Octopus
employs its favourite tactic of squeezing the life from
its prey. Lose an additional point of STAMINA. Held in
the monster’s vice-like grip, unless you can break free
by winning the next Attack Round, you will suffer the
crushing damage again, which will increase by a
further point each time. Return to 280 and continue
your struggle with the Octopus.

-

47
The well-thumbed tome is actually a book of myths

and legends. Flicking through it your eye is caught by
one page in particular, which has the name ‘Quezkari’
written at the top. You read with interest about the
evil voodoo spirit and find a section describing wards
used to protect against Quezkari’s power. The text
refers to a Spirit Jewel and a magical bone weapon
rumoured to be hidden in a cave system somewhere
on the island! Now do you want to:

Examine the potions? Turn to 217
Study the Arcanum? Turn to 5
Leave Erasmus’s cell? Turn to 385

48-50

48
Continuing along the passageway, you follow it as it
turns right and reaches a junction. The passage you
are in soon comes to a dead-end in a chamber in
which is the bizarre statue of some kind of lizard. The
new tunnel bends round to the left after a few metres
so you cannot see what lies along it. Will you enter the
statue room (turn to 88) or take the new path (turn to

295)?

49
At once the guard pulls a chain which sets off a
Fngling of bells inside the fort. Almost immediately,
the gates open and what seems like half the City
Guard pour out to surround you. Turn to 236.

When you have completed your tale, the Queen
speaks: “Your cause is a noble one but we have had
dealings with the cult of Quezkari ourselves. How do
we know that you are not lying to us in order to
ensnare us to the Evil One? We must be sure. You
must take the Test of the Warrior.’ If these people
are to trust you, and you gain their help, you can’t
deny Queen Zyteea’s decree. You are led to a pool of

EE
51-53
bubbling mud. Sulphurous fumes rise from it and a
tree trunk has been laid across the middle. You are
then blindfolded and told to walk across the log!
Judging your position by touch alone and your head
spinning from the fumes, you take your first step. Test
your Skill twice, adding 1 to the roll each time. If you
pass both tests, turn to 259. If you fail either of them,
turn to 18.

51
Do you have the word ‘Regnad’ written on your
Adventure Sheet? If so, turn to 310. If not, turn to 287.

52
Choosing somewhere you've not been yet, where will
you continue your search?

The docks? Turn to 67

The ruined lighthouse? Turn to 146

The taverns and inns? Turn to 150

The sewers? Turn to 355

The cemetery? Turn to 83

The Temple Quarter? Turn to 181
53

The jungle in front of you suddenly appears to move
and then a huge, lizard-like shape melts out of the
greenery. The Giant Chameleon focuses on you with
its bizarre, rotating eyes and moves jerkily towards
you. Riding on its back is a humanoid chameleon-like
creature wielding a short spear. The gigantic lizard
hisses and its scales take on a variety of brilliant hues

Ey Ee

54-55

— a sure sign that it is angry and about to attack. Once
again you are fighting for your life!

GIANT CHAMELEON STAMINA 9

If the Giant Chameleon’s Attack Strength is over 20 or
21, and it wins the Attack Round, turn to 133. If you
kill the lizard, the Chameleonite riding it escapes into
the jungle, its camouflaged skin keeping it safe from
detection. Add the word ‘Depacse’ to your Adventure
Sheet and turn to the paragraph with the number you
noted down earlier.

SKILL 9

54
You tread water for several hours, but no ships come

in sight. Exhausted, the sea finally claims you for its
own.

55
You have wasted enough time here already, so you

prepare to leave the Silent Donkey. Test your Luck.
If you are Lucky, turn to 218. If you are Unlucky, turn
to 25.

56-58

56
‘Stranger,’ says one of the warriors, in a language you
can understand, ‘leave our village. You are not
welcome here.’ If you do as the warrior commands,
turn to 164. If you want to persist in trying to enter the
tribespeople’s village, turn to 206.

57

Following the passageway right past the T-junction,
you pass between walls crudely daubed with images
of Quezkari and other voodoo deities dealing out
death in its various forms to humans. Feeling the floor
shift, you immediately know what is happening: a
balance trap has been triggered and the floor is tilting
up to reveal a deep, spiked pit underneath it. Your
only hope is to leap over the treacherous gap now
opening up before you. Test your Skill. If you succeed,
turn to 308. If you fail, turn to 240.

58

You slowly become aware of a fluttering sound in the
air behind you. You spin round to see a huge fanged
bat flapping towards you. It is the spirit of the
vanquished Jolly Roger. The vampire has returned to
feast on your blood so that it might restore itself to
true unlife. You are going to have to fight the bat if
vou are to escape from this chamber.

BLOODTHIRSTY BAT

If the bat scores two successive hits against you, it rips
at your throat with its distended fangs causing you to
lose 3 STAMINA points, rather than the usual 2. If you

EJ] CE]

SKILL 7 STAMINA 5

59-62

defeat Jolly Roger’s undead spirit for a second time
you flee the chamber without a second thought. Turn
to 166.

The Talismonger tells you that the lodestone inside
the compass is attracted to large deposits of gold - a
must for any would-be treasure hunter. It is only after
you have handed over your money that you wonder
why the Talismonger hasn’t used the compass
himself to make his fortune. Return to 42.

60
As the rest of the crew repel the other Crabs, the ship
starts to list to one side. The crustaceans must have
actually holed the hull. With the Fortune so badly
damaged, you will not be able to pursue Cinnabar
and can only look forward to a future as crab food.
Your adventure is over.

61
How many Gold Pieces are you offering? If it is less
than 5 Gold Pieces, turn to 22; otherwise, turn to 195.

62
The hallucinations continue and become too much
for you. With a hysterical scream, you lose your
mind through fear. With no longer any will of your
own, you become one of those whom you have so
desperately tried to destroy — a devotee of the Black
Skull and a servant of Evil. Your adventure is over.

63-65

63
You are half way across the bridge when one of the
rotten planks from which it is comprised suddenly
splinters and gives way under your weight. Test your
Skill. If you succeed, turn to 273. If you fail, turn to 317.

64
Despite having a wooden leg, the old rogue moves
quite quickly and disappears around a corner before
you can catch up with him. As you are about to round
the corner yourself, you suddenly start to have
misgivings about your latest course of action. Will
you continue to follow the pirate (turn to 282) or go
back the way you have just come (turn to 266)?

65
Wandering over the barren terrain you keep an eye
out for any sign of Cinnabar’s cronies or evidence of
buried treasure. Test your Luck twice. If you are Lucky
both times, turn to 110. If you are Unlucky either time,
turn to 208.

66—67

66

There is no sign of another human soul having been
washed up on the island so, sadly, you assume that
you were the only survivor of the Behemoth’s attack.
Even the famed bounty-hunter Conyn is gone.
Mourning the loss of the Fortune, you continue to
wander south along the shore-line. Rounding a sandy
promontory you are surprised by what you see before
you. Ten metres away, a primitive human-like
creature, with strongly muscled arms and covered in
red hair, is tearing open some of the crates washed up
from the wreck. The creature looks up, hearing you
approach, and growls. Will you:

Prepare to defend yourself? Turn to 95
Make a run for it into the jungle? Turn to 125
Try to communicate with the
creature? Turn to 358
Offer the primitive something? Turn to 183
67

The docks are quiet at this time of night. You decide
that if the pirates’ hideout was located around the
docks, the entrance would have to be in the harbour
wall somewhere. Descending to the wooden jetties,
you start your search. Thud. What was that? Thud.
There it is again. You stand perfectly still, your ears
straining to pick up any sound. Then you hear the
rattling of a chain being dragged across the wooden
planks close by. Swoosh! A large anchor suddenly flies
out of the dense mist, in a sweeping arc, towards you.

Edo)

68-70

Test your Luck. If you are Lucky, turn to 321. If you are
Unlucky, turn to 230.

68

The tropical environment of the island is very
different to the northerly, wind-lashed Port of Crabs.
The day drags on as you stagger through the jungle,
your clothes soaked with sweat. Entering a low
valley, you come upon a scene of utter devastation. In
a large clearing lies what is left of a tribespeople’s
village. The place has been razed to the ground and a
deathly silence hangs over the place. Do you want to
quickly pass through the ruined village (turn to 197)
or would you rather pause here and explore it (turn
to 117)?

69

As soon as you have stepped underneath the
portcullis it drops down, blocking the way out! There
is nothing in the cave of any use to you, so you set
about trying to get out again. There is no chain or
lever inside the cave to raise the portcullis, so you
decide that you will have to resort to brute force. If
you have a Potion of Giant-Strength, you may drink it
now (turn to 31). If you do not have the potion, or you
do not want to use it, turn to 120.

70
You open the door and find yourself in the pirates’
shrine to their dark god, dominated by a hideous
statue of the skeletal Quezkari, but the place is empty.
You are too late! Cinnabar and his crew have already

71-73

weft this place and, unable to follow them, you have
aailed in your quest.

71
You gasp in shock as you hit the freezing water and
disappear beneath the surface of the pool. Feeling
wour way forwards under the water, you find an
pening in the rock wall. Swimming through it you
emerge inside another cave. Glowing crystals placed
around the cavern provide light to see by, which is
reflected off glinting gold coins and the facets of
precious jewels. You have never seen such a fabulous
soard. Lying, almost discarded, to one side of the
zeasure pile is a curious sword-like weapon carved
=om bone! Do you want to:

Take a closer look at the bone

weapon? Turn to 306
Collect some of the gold and jewels? Turn to 123
Leave Blackscar’s ‘cursed’ treasure

untouched? Turn to 279

72
Filled with an overwhelming sense of foreboding,
wou hurriedly return to the deck and depart the Sea

‘aiden. Lose 1 LUCK point and turn to 153.

73
The Octopus sinks back under the waves, its foul
dlood staining the water purple. Confident that it will
now be safe to explore the cave, you do just that but, to
your disappointment, find no other tunnels leading

[+] [J

74-77

from it. The pirates’ hideout obviously isn’t here.
Turn to 350.

74
Swinging their cudgels, the pirates engage you in
combat.

SKILL STAMINA
First PIRATE 7 7
Second PIRATE 6 7

If you win, the Half-Ogre steps forward to fight you.
Will you face your opponent (turn to 187) or try to
escape (turn to 6)?

75
The undead pirate smashes the gem from your hand

and it shatters on the stone floor of the chamber. Cross
the Blue Gem off your Adventure Sheet and turn to 147.

76
Overcome with fear you fling open the door and rush
out of the room. You have been badly shaken by your
experience (lose 1 SKILL point and 1 LUCK point). Will
you now:

Open the left-hand door? Turn to 353

Enter the hold? Turn to 26

Leave the Sea Maiden? Turn to 153
77

The two monsters snap, slash and hurl themselves at
each other as you watch, transfixed. Run the fight

78

between the ape and the lizard, rolling for Attack
Strengths and deducting sTamINa points, as you
would if you were fighting either of the creatures.

SKILL STAMINA
GREAT APE 8 10
TERRIBLE LIZARD 7 11

As soon as one of the colossi has defeated the other,
turn to 205.

78
With a roar, the mutant bounds towards you. You
have no choice but to fight the monster.

NINE-TAILS

the cat attacks by trying to slash you with its great
claws and bite you with its huge fangs. However, if
the monster hits you, roll one dice. If you roll 6, the
deast has hit you with its barbed tails instead: roll one
dice and deduct the number rolled from your
STAMINA score. You may Test your Luck to avoid this
damage if you wish. Keep track of how much
STAMINA you lose in this way. If you survive this
battle, turn to 235.

SKILL 10 STAMINA 10

let

- ge ef

et Bet

“y " eh, 5 ii \
’ ‘ Ay\ 3
' Lah A eA ‘ ‘
wit * , \

Set i Wi
Sali we Ha

4) 18

79-80
79

_ SXtambling up the galleon’s rigging, you find yourself

tapped, unless... Cutting a rope free, you grab hold of
the end and leap into mid-air. Swinging down
wards the pirates you flail about with your sword to
keep them at bay. There is a cry of pain from one of the
buccaneers and you see a red-haired woman clutch-
img the stump where her hand used to be. You sail
past the infuriated pirates over the edge of the Virago.
Letting go of the rope, you drop several metres before
lntting the water. The galleon continues on its course,
Reaving you stranded in the middle of the Western
Ocean, as the crew watch you, laughing. Or are they
geally looking at you? They actually seem to be
watching something behind you. ‘Have a good
swim!’ shouts one of them. Turning round in the
water you see the tell-tale triangular fin and, ducking
your head under the waves, you see the Great White
Shark closing in on you, jaws wide open. You just
have time to draw your sword before it is on you.

GREAT WHITE SHARK SKILL 9

Fighting underwater is difficult and as a result you
must reduce your Attack Strength by 2 points for the
duration of this battle. Also, unless you defeat the
Shark in less Attack Rounds than your current SKILL
score you will drown! If you kill the Great White, turn
to 186.

STAMINA 10

80
The tunnel winds its way into the hill until it
@pens into a high-ceilinged chamber, with stalactites

CJ fe

81-82

pointing down from the cave roof. A piercing squeak-
ing starts up as, disturbed by the light from your
lantern, three large bats flap down from their roosts te
drive you off. As the creatures batter you with thei
wings, you catch a glimpse of their greatly enlarged
front teeth. You must fight the Vampire Bats.

SKILL STAMINA
First VAMPIRE BAT 5 4
Second VAMPIRE BAT 5 5
Third VAMPIRE BAT 5 4

While you are fighting one of the screeching bats,
those remaining land on you and suck your blood
each causing 1 STAMINA point of damage per Attack
Round. If you kill all three, turn to 148.

81

The Arrow of Providence is a popular game of chance
in the Gambling Pits. It is made up of a large circular
board divided into twelve sections, each painted with
a legend. An arrow-like pointer has been attached te
the centre of the board so that it can be spun. To play
the game will cost 2 Gold Pieces but you will be play-
ing for a potential jackpot of 10 Gold Pieces. If you
want to play, turn to 346. If you do not want to havea
go, you leave the Arrow of Providence (turn to 260).

82
Deep down you know that the nightmares you are
witnessing are not real and manage to convince
yourself that they are merely illusions. At once the
phantasms vanish. However, Ramatu is obviously

83-84

expecting you to be overcome by fear and, sur-
rounded by Zombies, you are in no position to stop
him. In a brilliant piece of acting, you let out a loud
scream and collapse on the floor. Satisfied that he has
broken your will, Ramatu dismisses the Mask Zom-
dies and returns to his blasphemous rituals. When
you are sure the coast is clear, you leap to your feet
and run at the High Priest, yelling. If you have the
word ‘Dehsams’ written on your Adventure Sheet, turn
®% 324. If not, turn to 139.

83

Keeping to shadowy doorways wherever possible,
you make your way swiftly along Corpse Way
towards Dead Men’s Gate. Do you have any of the
following words written on your Adventure Sheet:
“Etarip’, ‘Rohcna’, “Yeknod’ or ‘Desruc’? Count up the
number of words you have noted down from the list
above and if you have:

None of the words. Turn to 119
One or two of the words. Turn to 40
Three or four of the words. Turn to 27

84

Your reactions are not quick enough and the gobbet of
silk hits you, sticking fast. Before you can cut yourself
free, a second strand squirts from the monster’s jaws
and your sword-arm is fixed to your side. In no time at
all, you are trapped inside a cocoon of silk, trussed up
im a tree and left in the spider-scorpion’s larder until it
feels like a snack. Your adventure is over.

Cl] Ea

CSCS

85-87

85
As you are hacking your way through the dense
undergrowth you unwittingly disturb the sensitive
carpet of vines surrounding the vase-like trunk of a
Giant Pitcher-Plant. A strong tendril suddenly whips
out of the jungle and you find yourself fighting for
your life against the carnivorous plant.

TENDRIL

If the tendril wins three consecutive Attack Rounds,
turn immediately to 383. If you defeat the tendril
without this happening, turn to 343.

SKILL 8 STAMINA 7

86
Poison darts shoot out of the walls just above your
head, missing you by millimetres. You were lucky this
time but from now on you'll have to be more careful.
Turn to 48.

87
Caught unawares, you are unable to avoid the effects
of the Witchdoctor’s magic: your mind becomes
confused and addled. The man takes advantage of
your befuddled state and springs at you, using his
wand as his weapon.

MALU THE
WITCHDOCTOR

For the duration of this battle you must reduce your
Attack Strength by 2 points. If the Witchdoctor strikes
you, the wand drains 3 points of STAMINA from you

SKILL 9 STAMINA 8

|

|

|

88-89

rather than the usual 2. If you kill Cinnabar’s servant,
turn to 366.

88

The bronze iguana-like creature, green with age,
stands three metres tall on its hindlegs with its mouth
epen and has sparkling diamonds for eyes. Apart
fom the worrying bloodstains on the floor, there is
nothing else of interest here, so will you leave the
chamber and take the other tunnel (turn to 295) or
Srst try to prise the diamonds from their sockets (turn
% 176)?

89
Prising the dead pirate’s fingers open, you try to take
the talisman from the corpse. Suddenly the dead
man’s eyes flick open and a cruel smile twists its
drawn lips, revealing the elongated points of the
pirate’s incisors. You leap backwards in fright, feeling
badly shaken (lose 1 LUCK point). You are going to
have to act quickly. Will you draw your sword
(turn to 147), look for sometl.ing else to use from your
backpack (turn to 108) or attempt to flee (turn to 276)?

Ey Cd

Ee eee
90-91

90

“Ah, Bone Island,’ muses Conyn. ‘I’ve heard rumours
oe about the place. Talk of voodoo and buried treasure,
A RS but I didn’t know of its location until now.’ Before

ave

’
t
*
t

Che
a oY HY SHIEH: Girecting his crew to set a course for Bone Island,
| ie Conyn turns to you. ‘There are two different routes
we can take. The quicker one should allow us to catch
@p with the Virago but will take us through the
Crab Reefs, which are notorious for the gigantic
«xustaceans said to dwell there. However, if we avoid
the reefs our journey will take longer. Which way do
you think we should go? Through the Crab Reefs

@urn to 267) or around them (turn to 297)?’

ah t ; 1 Ft 4 1%,

91

You pass several recessed, grilled doors through
which are cramped, dank cells, their only inhabitants
ereeping, slithering things and the yellowed bones of
frmer prisoners. At the end of the passage you enter
a@ large cave-like chamber with more doors leading
from it. However, standing on guard are two peculiar
figures. Their flesh is grey and withered and their
faces are covered by primitive tribal masks. Each
bolds a spear and on seeing you they move towards
re ee: a wade you. Will you fight the guards (turn to 28) or run for
hia SR: PS ait ka edly ME @ back down the tunnel and past the T-junction (turn

92-96

g2
Boldly, you speak the word, ‘Leviathan’. Turn to 269.

93
You draw your sword and thrust it in the old man‘

face, but this merely makes him laugh all the more
Sniggering like the simpleton he is, Scrimshaw
sprints away into the hills, leaving you to explore
them without his help. Turn to 65.

94
You hare off through the jungle, the Great Ape's

bellowing cries fading into the echoing distance
behind you. Turn to the paragraph with the number
you noted down previously.

95
Seeing you draw your sword, the creature g

berserk. Baring its teeth, it leaps at you snarling
‘Balinac kill!’ You have no choice but to fight the
primitive Balinac.

BALINAC

If you kill the apeman, you search through the crates
and find nothing but rotting foodstuffs. Balinac has
no possessions so you decide to set off into the jungle
in the hope of still stopping Cinnabar’s pirates. Turn
to 125.

SKILL 8 STAMINA 8

96
‘Nightdeath, aid me now!’ you cry and the bone blade
bursts into flame. Screeching, Quezkari attacks. The

97

voodoo death-god is actually a powerful, evil spirit —
a manifestation of the souls of all those transformed
into Zombies by the evil Ramatu and those killed by
Cinnabar. If you have a Wristband of White Feathers,
the courage of the Usai people is with you as you fight
(add 1 to your Attack Strength).

QUEZKARI

Each time Quezkari wounds you his dark powers
drain 3 STAMINA points from you, unless you are
protected by the Ivory Lion Charm, in which case you
only lose the usual 2. If you overcome all the odds and
defeat the all-powerful spirit, turn to 400.

SKILL 13 STAMINA 18

97
As you suspected, the door opens into the Captain’s

cabin. Fortunately, however, there is no sign of
anyone being here at the moment. The cabin is
plushly decorated with mahogany panelling and
thick velvet drapes. The room is lit by an oil lamp
hanging from a beam and an empty birdcage swings
from the rafters, but there are four things that really
attract your attention: a globe of Titan, a large oak
chest, Cinnabar’s desk and an ornate ship in a bottle.
If you don’t want to take a closer look at any of these,
turn to 233. If you do, which will it be?

The globe? Turn to 349
The chest? Turn to 316
The desk? Turn to 134
The ship in a bottle? Turn to 29

98-100

98

The fortune-teller remains silent as you drop your
money into his pot. Without looking up, he turns over
the first card at the top of the deck. On it is painted the
picture of a black skull! You immediately feel a chill in
your veins and a forbidding atmosphere of evil
pressing down on you. In anger and fear you draw
your sword and strike the man. At your blow, the rags
collapse in a heap -— there is no sign of anyone ever
having been there! (Lose 2 LUCK points and add the
word ‘Desruc’ to your Adventure Sheet.) Panicked, you
turn and flee through the Temple Quarter, only stop-
ping again when you have put many streets between
you and the wise men. Add 1 Hour and turn to 334.

99
You manage to raise the portcullis far enough to get

out of the cave and then make for the door instead.
Carefully, you open the second door. How long has it
taken you to get this far? If it has taken 9 Hours or
more, turn to 70. If it has taken 8 Hours or less, turn to

333.

100
Madame Galbo’s cottage is an unassuming building
m the quiet Mandrake’s Lane, although somewhat
disturbing is the votive totem, made from a dead
bird’s carcass, nailed to the door. You knock three
times and, hearing a croaky ‘Enter!’, push open the
door. You immediately find yourself in a herbalist’s
paradise; bunches of herbs hang from the low rafters
of the room, which is filled with a profusion of potted

EE
Ss §=— ey ee

101

plants. The greenery and humidity of the chamber
make you feel like you are in the depths of a tropical
rainforest. Sitting behind a cluttered table is a dark-
skinned old woman with a crumpled face and thick
curly black hair - Madame Galbo. The wisewoman is
busy preparing a concoction in a pestle and mortar.
As you enter the room, there is a great squawking and
flapping at your feet as a large black cockerel hops out
of your way. ‘Don’t mind Rabab,’ says Madame
Galbo of her familiar. ‘Now what can I do for you?’
You sense that you can trust this woman so you tell
her of your search for the Pirates of the Black Skull.
‘The followers of the Dark One have many guises and
set many traps to ensnare the unwary. If you are to
confront them you will need my help for I have an
understanding of the ways of voodoo and can do
something to counteract it. But assistance comes at a
price — four Gold Pieces.’ If you can afford this
amount, and you are prepared to pay for the wise-
womans help, turn to 382. If not, you will have to
leave Madame Galbo’s cottage to look elsewhere for a
means of defeating Cinnabar’s cronies (turn to 239).

101
The Silent Donkey is situated on a dingy back street
within the Claws. Several suspicious characters
watch you enter the inn but none try to stop you.
Creeping up the creaky wooden staircase, you come
to the first room on the first floor — room 101. The key
turns in the lock and, opening the door, you step into a
room furnished with only a table and chair. But what
you see there sends an icy chill down your spine. On

102-103

the table rests a human skull, painted black and
decorated with a headdress of brightly coloured
bird’s feathers. The Black Skull! This is a bad omen.
There is nobody here so this must have all been a set-
up by Cinnabar’s cronies to delay you! The skull fills
you with foreboding but it still intrigues you. If you
want to take it with you, turn to 244; if not, turn to 55.

102

The bolt hits you in the thigh making you stumble and
fall onto the wooden planks. Lose 2 STAMINA points,
and in the battle to come for the first Attack Round
reduce your Attack Strength by 2 points as you try to
get up again. Turn to 182.

103
The Old Fort, residence of the Governor of the Port of
Crabs, stands at the top of the hill on which most of
the Old Town Quarter of the city is built. You climb
the hill and arrive outside the grim stone building.
The whole edifice looks like it could withstand an
army’s onslaught for weeks, even though it is now
several centuries old. As you approach the guard at
the gate, he asks you your business, and you demand
an audience with Governor Montargo. ‘Oh yeah?’
sneers the guard. ‘I can’t let just anyone in ‘ere, can I.
It’s more than my job’s worth.’ If you want to try
bribing him, decide how many Gold Pieces you will
offer the guard and then turn to 61. Alternatively you
could threaten him with cold steel (turn to 49). If you
don’t want to try either of these options you will have
to leave (add 1 Hour and turn to 334).

L} Ee

104-107

104
The crystal explodes in a blaze of light, blasting
shards of rock around the chamber, but incredibly
you manage to get away fairly unscathed! (Lose 2
STAMINA points.) There is nothing more you can do
here so you leave the crystal room. Record the word
“‘Dehsams’ on your Adventure Sheet and turn to 329.

105
The second blow knocks you off your feet. Before you
can get up again, the Anchor Man quickly loops the
heavy chain round your ankles and throws the anchor
far out into the harbour. You are immediately
dragged from the pier, into the sea, and pulled under-
water as the anchor rapidly sinks towards the floor of
the harbour. Only just controlling the urge to panic,
you try to free yourself from the chain. Roll two dice
and add 12. If the total is less than or equal to your
STAMINA score, turn to 340; if it is greater, turn to 249.

106
You shake the wand at the unearthly creature, but to
no effect. As you are doing this Quezkari lashes out at
you with a taloned hand (lose 2 STAMINA points). You
have no choice now but to retaliate with your sword.
Turn to 177.

107
Unable to escape, you face a slow, agonizing death at
the hands of Cinnabar’s sadistic torturer. You have
failed in your quest and your adventure is most
definitely over.

108-110

108
ft you have any of the following you have time to try
t> use one of them against the risen pirate. Will you
choose:

Zombie Dust? Turn to 12
A skeleton artefact? Turn to 356
A broken balustrade? Turn to 189
A blue gem? Turn to 75
A witchdoctor’s wand? Turn to 212

if you do not have any of the above items, or choose
not to use any of them, turn to 147.

109
As you elbow your way through the bustling crowds,
above the hubbub you hear a gruff voice say ina harsh
whisper, “The Virago sails for Bone Island at mid-
night.’ Looking round you see two knavish-looking
characters part company and go their separate ways
among the throng. You will not be able to follow them
now. The Virago was the name of Cinnabar’s ship and
what was that about an island? This careless talk
could be an important clue (write down the word
‘Dnalsi’ on your Adventure Sheet). Will you now move
on to Calabrius’s Calculator (turn to 294), visit “The
Amazing Armarno’ (turn to 9) or leave the Gambling
Pits (turn to 207)?

110
Eventually you come to a wide cave entrance at the
foot of a rocky escarpment. Inside, a tunnel leads off
mto the darkness. You will need to use your lantern if

LT} G3

prc lelClLmDeee
111-113

She WH Pe PEE: you are to enter the caverns. If you want to do just
M9 ie WPT, Uf gies that, turn to 80. If not, you decide to head northeast,
Wi Hy HY /} Ne i, WH back into the island’s interior (turn to 279).

111

(Add 1 Hour to your total.) As you are walking along
Traders Street away from the market, you cannot help
but notice a roguish figure standing on the corner of
Lobster Alley. The man is gaunt and scrawny, in his
later years, and with several days’ growth of stubble.
He also has an eye-patch, a wooden stump for a leg
beneath his right knee and wears a long coat and
tricorn hat. A monkey, with its own tiny waistcoat, is
scampering around the man’s shoulders. As you walk
past the pirate, you make eye contact and he beckons
t you with a glance before turning and hobbling
away up the alley. Will you follow the man (turn to
64) or go on your way (turn to 143)?

OSS

(\

vs Fe

i 4
ae ie

x

112
The Scarachna’s sting lashes forwards and strikes
you, sending its toxic venom coursing through your
body. (Lose 6 STAMINA points.) If you survive this
attack, turn back to 201 and continue your battle.

113
You are led to the largest hut in the village where you
are brought before a lithe, beautiful woman dressed
like the other warriors, only with a more elaborate
headdress. ‘Iam Queen Zyteea of the Usai tribe,’ she
Savs in a tongue you understand. ‘What are you doing
on this island?’ You decide you have nothing to lose

Pl Led

444-115 116-119

by telling Queen Zyteea the truth and so relate yo:
story to her. If you have the word ‘Sitnam’ recorde]
on your Advenhire Sheei, turn to 224; otherivise, tur
to 50.

116
Managing to conttal your fear and stay calm, you
aze in fascination al the apparition materialising
Sefore you, The ghosl looks like the woman carved as
e figurehead for the ship. ‘Help usss...* wails the

114 ghost, ‘The captain must be bested if we are to be
You slip down the slope and suffer cuts and bruises gy feed. Help uses...” And then she is gone. Puzzled, you
Roll one dice and subtract the number rolled from @2ve the room and:

your sTAMINA score. If you roll a 6 you also lese Open the other door? Turn to 353
SKILL point. Turn tp 219. Leave the ship? Turn to 72
; Descend to the hold? Turn to 26
* a1
You soon leave the jungle, with its strange sounds an& 117

rank smells of rotting vegetation, and find the grouné
rising as you head into the foothills of hhe mountains
As the sun climbs higher in the sky so you clim®
higher inte the mountains. If you have the wore
“‘Depacse’ on your Adventure Sheet, harn to 335. Lf noe
Test your Litck. If you are Lucky, tum to 293. If you ant
Unlucky, turn to 335.

Searching through ihe wreckage of the devastated
Suildings, you find nothing thal has nol been broken
er destroyed. The curious thing is that there are no
Bodies among the destruction and no sign of the
willagers in the surrounding jungle. Puzzled, you set
stf again south. Tum tv 197.

218
Weduct another 2 Gold Pieces from your total.) This
‘Gmc you are positive you have the right card — but
when Armarno turns it over, it is black again! He has
® be deveiving you! Now will you challenge the
@audster (turn lo 258}, leave his table (fur to 223) or
save the Gambling Pits {burn to 207)?

119

Jest outside the city walls lies the cemetery. Its
gaillared entrance is decorated with disturbing slatues

Ed} C.J
120-121

and the fog merely adds to the eerie atmosphere of the
place. Creeping between the weathered tombstones
and mausoleums, you suddenly hear the crack of a
twig somewhere off to your left and almost jump out
of your skin. Spinning round, you are sure you catch a
glimpse of something disappearing behind a grim
sepulchre, You are not alone in the cemetery.
Something else is also prowling around here during
the hours of darkness. Peering round the corner of a
crypt you see two men, who look like sailors, walking
away from you through the mist, carrying a heavy-
looking chest between them. Where can they be
going? And what are they up to? If you have a Crab
Doubloon, tum to 175. If you do not, will you:

Follow the two men to see where

they go? Turn to 312
Launch a surprise attack on them? Turn to 284
ignore them and leave the

(add 1 Hour) to search elsewhere? Turn to 52

120
Taking hold of the portcullis, you heave with all your
might. Roll three dice and add 6 to the number rolled.
If the total is less than or equal to your STAMINA score,
turn to 9g. If it is greater, turn to 204.

121
‘That is correct. Congratulations,’ says Calabrius,
with a forced smile, and reluctantly hands you a bag
containing 10 Gold Pieces. (Add these to your
Adventure Sheet and regain 1 Luck point.) With your

122-123

confidence having been granted a boost, will you now
look at the Arrow of Providence (turn to 81), visit “The
Amazing Armarno’ (turn to g) or leave the Gambling
Pits (turn to 207)?

122
Choose one of the items you are carrying and cross it
off your Adventure Sheet. The creature eyes your gift
with avid curiosity, turning it over and over in its
hands. Fixing you with its glittering eyes it grins and
says something in a twittering language you cannot
understand. The capricious humanoid then disap-
pears back into the jungle as abruptly as it first
appeared, taking its treasure with it. You have just
encountered a Rainforest Sprite and for giving it a gift
you have received its blessing. (Restore 2 LUCK
points.) Now turn to the paragraph with the same
number as that which you noted down previously.

123
As soon as you touch the treasure you feel a tingling
sensation in your fingertips. Looking down in horror,
you see that your hands are turning to gold and you
are no longer able to move them! There is nothing you
can do as the transformation proceeds to affect your
arms and soon your entire body. The next person to
enter this chamber will marvel at the realism of the
golden statue standing here.

rd] EJ

124-127

124
Cinnabar lunges at you. Caught off guard you do not
parry his thrust and, in shocked surprise, you feel the
cold steel of his blade sink into your heart. You end

your adventure and your life here, slain by the
bh inde bY hh My Me murderer of your family.
say seh ls pli 1 f, a 4
ee :
ae Me Tbh ti , ms Once you are within the boundary of the jungle it is as
Ae 2 Rite ea tt Reine if you have been transported into another world. A

green twilight permeates everywhere under the
canopy of the trees and you are surrounded by
strange sounds and smells. An oppressive, prickly
heat pervades the jungle, making the going harder
than usual. Make a note of the number 385 on your
Adventure Sheet and then turn to 192.

126

Your opponents slump to the ground and you turn
round to deal with the treacherous pirate. The old
rogue is already fleeing as fast as he can along the
alley. You run after him but, hearing your approach,
the man spins round and lets fly a dagger. Test your
Skill. If you succeed, turn to 173. If you fail, turn to
213.

127
You. enter a small dark room and are immediately
assailed by the heady smell of burning herbs.
Through the smoke you make out a large man, sitting
mside a chalk circle, wearing only a loincloth,
macabre necklaces and a headdress of brightly

Ee) Ee

128-129

coloured feathers. This must be Cinnabar’s Witch-
doctor, Malu. In one hand he holds a primitive wand,
and the bodies of small, dead animals surround him.
At your arrival, Malu snaps out of the trance-like state
he was in and mutters something incomprehensible
under his breath. Suddenly your head starts to spin.
Test your Skill, adding 1 to the dice roll. lf you succeed,
turn to 44. If you fail, turn to 87.

128
The blazing ball drops towards the deck and, before
you can get out of -the way, smashes into your body.
You double up in agony from the scorching. (Lose 5
STAMINA points.) Seeing a second such missile
hurtling towards the ship, you take cover behind the
mast. Turn to 232.

129
Folklore has it that in the past pirates would kill one
of their crewmen at the place where they buried their
treasure or at a location they wanted kept secret, so
that in death the ghost would guard it, unsleepingly.
This is obviously what Cinnabar did here. Confi-
denily, you speak the password: ‘Crossbones.’
Holding your breath, you await Jack A-Lantern’s
reaction.

“You may paasss...’ hisses the pirate-ghost and sinks
into the earth in front of you. Not waiting to be told
twice, you hurry along the passageway, which ends
in a flight of steps that descend under the cemetery.
At the end of a short passageway you come to a

130-132

T-junction. Will you go left (tum to 221) or right (turn
to 13)?

130
If you have a Magical Compass, turn to 172. If not,
will you threaten the castaway to make him tell you
about the treasure (turn to 93) or will you ignore him
and explore the hills alone (turn to 65)?

131
An undead sailor falls before you, felled by the mace
of a tall figure, clad entirely in spiked armour. The
silent Chaos Champion joined Cinnabar’s crew to
help him serve his dark masters better by spreading
evil throughout all Ruddiestone.

CHAOS CHAMPION

If you strike the warrior, roll one dice: on a roll of 1-3
your blow only causes the champion 1 STAMINA
point of damage due to the protection of his armour. If
the warrior strikes you, also roll one dice: on a roll
of 5-6 his heavy mace causes you 3 STAMINA points
of damage. If you defeat the Chaos Champion, turn
to 298.

SKILL 10 STAMINA 11

132
Although you struggle valiantly to free yourself,
ultimately you cannot. In minutes the tide raises the
level of the seawater in the pit above your head and in
a matter of a few more minutes, you have drowned.
Your adventure ends here in a watery grave.

Ey Cd

133-135

133

With a horrible squelching sound, the Chameleon’s
disgusting tongue, as long as its body, shoots out of its
mouth and hits you. The sticky pad holds you fast as
the Chameleon retracts its tongue, bringing you into
its mouth. The monster bites down, injuring you
severely (lose 4 STAMINA points and 1 SKILL point). If
you are still alive, return to 53 and continue your
battle.

134

The desk drawers are locked and, as there is no sign of
a key, you try to force one. Eventually you manage to
break open a drawer but at the same time trigger a
blade that springs out of the desk into your wrist,
cutting you badly (lose 2 STAMINA points and 1 SKILL
point). Having staunched the bleeding, you go
through the contents of the drawer. All you find are
papers relating to the layout of Cinnabar’s hideout in
the Port of Crabs, which are of no use to you now. Will
you now leave the room (turn to 233) or look at the
globe (turn to 349), the chest (turn to 316) or the ship
in a bottle (turn to 29)?

135

You turn on your heels and run! You hear a sharp
crack behind you and then find yourself falling
forwards as the Half-Ogre’s whip wraps around your
ankles and your feet are pulled from beneath you.
(Lose 2 STAMINA points and 1 LUCK point, for being
so cowardly!) In an instant the pirates are on you.
Fight them both at the same time.

136-137

SKILL STAMINA
First PIRATE 7 yi
Second PIRATE 6 i

During the first Attack Round you are trying to get to
your feet again, so you must reduce your Attack
Strength by 2 points. If you win, turn to 187.

136

Raising the whalebone effigy, you sense a thickening
of the air around you and a dimming of the light, as if
a cloud had crossed the face of the sun. In turn
Quezkari seems to grow in stature. Your use of the
Skeleton Artefact has aided his materialization on this
Plane. (When you have to fight Quezkari, remember
to add 1 point to his skit and 3 points to his
STAMINA.) There is only just time to draw your sword
before the unearthly spirit is upon you. Turn to 177.

137
You hurriedly drag the Devotee’s bodies to the side of
the street before searching them. The two men have
no possessions on them except for the sacrificial
daggers. The hilts of these are made of ebony, carved
to resemble human skulls, and on the backs of their
right hands is the now so familiar image of a grinning
black skull. The Devotees must have been out looking
for victims to sacrifice to the bloodthirsty Quezkari —
or maybe they were hunting you! But their presence
could also indicate that the pirates’ hidden base, or at
least a temple to Quezkari, is close by. Will you
continue your search here (turn to 396) or now look

LI CJ

138-139

elsewhere to avoid meeting any more Devotees (turn
to 52)?

138
You are not fast enough. Your spear-punctured body
will remain as a grim warming to all those who would
seek the cursed treasure of Blackscar.

139
As you draw your sword against Ramatu, he prepares
to retaliate by casting a spell.

RAMATU SKILL 11 STAMINA 11

Consult the table below each time the High Priest
wins an Attack Round to see which attack he uses and
the damage it causes.

Attack Round Attack and Damage

ist Magical Darts: roll one dice and lose
that many STAMINA points.

2nd Quezkari’s Curse: lose 1 SKILL point,
1 LUCK point and 3 STAMINA points.

3rd Bloodfire: Ramatu blasts you with jets
of flaming blood, lose 4 STAMINA
points.

4th onwards Screaming Dagger: lose 2 STAMINA
points and reduce your Attack
Strength by 1 point for the rest of the
battle due to the dagger’s off-putting
shrieks.

If you defeat the High Priest, turn to 7.

Cd fed
2 SS EL —e———eEeE—EEe

140-141

140
It is backbreaking work but after twenty minutes you
have managed to clear a sizeable pile of stones from
the cave-in, creating an opening into the tunnel
beyond. It is only as you are partially through the hole
you have cleared that the unstable tunnel roof gives
way once more, crushing you under several tonnes of
rock and earth. Your adventure ends here.

141
Opening the door and stepping through it, you find
yourself in an obsessively tidy and disturbing room.
The place looks like a laboratory. On the walls are
detailed drawings of human and animal anatomy.
Several shelves are packed with glass jars containing
preserved body parts and even a human brain. A
leather-bound journal resting on a desk is embossed
in gold leaf with the name ‘Doctor Malefact’, the
ship’s surgeon and Cinnabar’s notorious torturer. Do
you want to search the Doctor's laboratory further
(turn to 313) or would you prefer not to linger here in
case you are discovered (turn to 233)?

142

142
You are accepted as a fellow warrior by the Usai and
as a sign of this are given a Wristband of White
Feathers, as worn by the other warriors of the tribe
(regain 1 LUCK point). Queen Zyteea invites you to
stay in the village that evening to share in their feast
and you happily accept. Marlin’s log was totally
wrong about the inhabitants of Bone Island. Rather
than being cannibals they are actually peaceable,
intelligent, civilised people. With the moon now high
in the night’s sky, you dine on exotic fruits and spit-
roast gazelle (restore up to 4 STAMINA points). As you
eat, Zyteea tells you that the Usai people live in fear of
Ramatu, the High Priest of Quezkari who lives in a
temple in the mountains. He sends dark voodoo
spirits against the tribespeople, carrying off warriors
to become his Zombie slaves. Suddenly there is a
scream from a tribesman on guard at the edge of the
village. Everyone rushes to see what the disturbance
is. The guard is suspended in mid-air and struggling
as if in the grasp of some great creature. For a moment
you think you see the shadowy outline of whatever is
attacking the man. It is only momentary but you get
the impression of a horny hide, large tusks, clawed
hands and hairy, hooved legs, as if the thing were an
amalgam of several different wild animals. The near-
mvisible Spirit-Beast roars and you run at it with your
weapon drawn. If you are using a bone sword, turn to
23. If not, turn to 234.

143-146

143
Ignoring the pirate, you leave the markets of the Port
of Crabs. (Make a note of the word ‘Etarip’ on your
Adventure Sheet.) If you have the word ‘Dnalsi’
written on your Adventure Sheet, turn to 17. If you do
not, hurn to 334.

144
You dodge the silk strand, throwing yourself out of
the way at the last second. Having wasted its spit
attack, the Scarachna drops down from the trees and
advances on you, trying to bite you with its mandibles
and sting you with its tail.

SCARACHNA

If the Scarachna wins an Attack Round, roll one dice.
If you roll a 6, turn to 380. If you reduce the Scarachna’s
STAMINA to 7 points or less, turn immediately to 292.

SKILL 11 STAMINA 12

445
Inside a shattered casket you find a corked Bottle of
Rum still intact. Drinking the rum will restore 4
STAMINA points. Now return to 300 and choose
another option.

146
Leaving the city, unnoticed, by the Kakhabad Gate
you make your way through the darkness to Mallan’s
Point. The moon shines down from a cloudless sky,
illuminating the crumbling tower that was once the
port’s lighthouse in more prosperous and peaceful
times. But the moon is not the only light visible. Close

147

to the edge of the cliff beyond the ruin you can see a
flickering light. If you want to investigate this light,
turn to 184. If you would rather approach the
lighthouse, turn to 220.

147
As you unsheathe your weapon the pirate’s grinning
corpse rises from the coffin. “Well, well,’ the dead man
says in a cracked voice, ‘it’s been so long since I’ve had
a drink, poor old Roger could die of thirst, so he
could.’ With fangs bared and talon-hands raised, the
vampiric pirate advances towards you.

JOLLY ROGER SKILL 9 STAMINA 10

If you kill the undead pirate, record the word
‘Eripmav’ on your Adventure Sheet and turn to 319.

148-150

148
Test your Luck. If you are Lucky, turn to 21; if you are
Unlucky, turn to 43.

149

The tunnel ends at a semicircular room on the far side
of which is an ornately carved stone door flanked by
two Zombie-like creatures with strange tribal masks
covering their faces. As soon as you enter the
chamber, the mindless guards shamble towards you.
Will you engage in combat (turn to 226) or flee from
here (turn to 329)?

150
You visit many of the seediest drinking establish-
ments in the city, including The Cat and Cockroach,
Angar’s Mutiny and the Barnacle Tavern. However,
your enquiries and investigations attract the atten-
tions of those whose interest you did not want to
arouse. Having just left yet another smoky bar-room,
you suddenly find yourself confronted by a group of
pirates and black-robed devotees — all followers of
Quezkari. They have been alerted to your mission by
your endless enquiries. Realising the danger you are
in from Cinnabar’s cronies, you run for it, as there are
far too many for you to fight by yourself. Test your

154-152

Luck. If you are Lucky, turn to 241. If you are Unlucky,
to 33.

151
Lontinuing along the passageway, eventually you
seach the entrance to a vast, well-lit chamber. At one
of the cavern a man, dressed in black, flowing
sobdes and with a headdress of crow’s feathers, is
chanting a spell over the corpse of a tribesman lying
m a large, stone slab. Surrounding the Voodoo Priest
d filling much of the chamber is a horde of Mask
ombies. Fascinated, you watch as the tribesman’s
mrpse becomes pallid and withers, The Priest then
Places a tribal mask, which glows with an eldritch
ght, on its head and instantly the Zombie sits up.
then the Priest looks up, directly at you! With a
sreeching cry he points in your direction and his
“endead servants shamble forwards. There is only one
mit from the chamber not blocked by the Zombies so
ll you run for it (turn to 201) or stand and fight (turn

© 45)?

152
Sinnabar slumps to the deck: you have overcome him
at last. But what is this? His wounds closing before
Your very eyes, Cinnabar rises to his feet again,
Seemingly unharmed! “Don’t you understand?’ he
mocks. ‘The ceremony was completed. I am invulner-

‘able and I shall be invincible! And do you know

why?’ Cinnabar is boasting now: ‘My heart is no
mger inside my body!’ If you have a Fetish, turn to
398. If not, turn to 124.

153-154
153

As the Fortune sails away from the Sea Maiden, you
watch as the ghost ship fades into thin air and the
green mist disperses on the wind. At the same time
the sky brightens once more. Suddenly there is a cry
from the crow’s nest: ‘Captain Conyn! Galleon off the
starboard bow!’

Ail eyes look out to sea. There on the horizon, sailing
away from you, is the unmistakable shape of
Cinnabar’s pirate ship, the Virago — and the Fortune is
gaining on it! Your quarry is in reach at last. Without
warning, the sea before your vessel becomes a boiling
froth. Out of this turbulence rises a gargantuan, fish-
like head, jaws open wide. The whale-like Behemoth
blots out the sun as its mouth descends on the Fortune,
teeth like stalactites bearing down on you. The scene
on board the Fortune is one of utter panic. Desperately
the crew is trying to steer the ship out of the way of the
monster, which is big enough to swallow it whole!
The great jaws crash down on the Fortune, closing
around the hold, breaking masts and spars as if they
were matchwood. You are thrown across the deck
and into the churning sea. Roll three dice: if the total is
greater than your STAMINA score, turn to 344; if it
less, turn to 300.

154
Gulping down the sweet liquid, you begin to feel
more dexterous and clear-headed. You’ve just drunk
a Potion of Skill (restore your SKILL score to its Initial
level). Turn back to 217 and choose another option.

Ae
ee

155-156
155

You find yourself dragged before Cinnabar once
again, only this time it is on the deck of the pirate-
lord’s ship. ‘So you escaped from our little trap,’ the
undead captain says, calmly. ‘Well it won’t happen
again. I think this time you deserve the attentions of
the good Doctor Malefact. Doctor?’

At Cinnabar’s invitation, a small, elderly man with
a balding pate and thick-lensed spectacles steps
towards you, scalpel raised and a wicked glint in his
eyes. You don’t want to imagine what he has planned
for you! You must try to escape. Test your Skill. If you
are successful, turn to 250. If you fail, turn to 107.

156
Pocketing your 2 Gold Pieces (deduct these from your
Adventure Sheet) Mundi takes a leather-bound tome
from a bookcase and quickly thumbs through it. ‘Ah,
yes. Here we are,’ he says, stopping at a particular
page. ‘This is a copy of the legendary Captain
Marlins log from his exploring days with the Pranc-
ing Porpoise. On one of his many voyages recorded in
this journal, he mentions, in passing, a tropical island
inhabited by cannibals, which he named Bone Island.
There is no map but he does say that it lies 370 leagues
east of the Port of Crabs. That’s all I can tell you, I’m
afraid,’ says the Dwarf. ‘If you ever go there, maybe
you could make a few sketches that I could use to
draw up a map of the place myself.’ Thanking
Mundi Pelago for his help, you go on your way. Turn

to 334,

157-160

157
The trap sprung, poison darts fly out of holes in the
walls hitting you. Roll one dice and add 2: this is the
number of darts that hit you, each one causing 1
STAMINA point of damage. Intending to be more
careful in future, you stagger onwards, feeling like a
human pincushion. Turn to 48.

158

You come to tied to a stone altar before a hideous,
bony likeness of the voodoo death-god, Quezkari.
You only just have time to take in the fact that you are
™ a large underground chamber packed with pirates
and Devotees, before a black-robed priest plunges his
sacrificial knife into your heart! Your very blood will
be used to help bring your enemy back to life! Your
adventure is over.

159
Like a great felled tree, the Anchor Man topples onto
the jetty with a crash (Make a note of the word
“‘Rohena’ on your Adventure Sheet.) A rapid search of

his body uncovers 6 Gold Pieces and a grubby piece of

old parchment. On it is written one word: ‘Leviathan’.
What can it mean? You continue your search for secret
entrances a while longer but discover nothing, so you
give up looking here. Add 1 Hour and turn to 52.

160
Holding out your arm, you allow Madame Galbo to
open a vein with a thin knife so that she can collect
some of your blood in a crucible (lose 3 STAMINA

EJ fe

161

points). Just as you feel that you are about to faint, you
hear the old wisewoman tell you that she is finished
Coming round, you watch as Madame Galbo hea
the blood over a small flame, together with anothe
strange liquid that smells strongly of sulphur. Clouds
of steam form in the air above you and then, withis
them, form wraith-like faces. The old woman now sit
swaying gently from side to side, with her eyes
closed. ‘Spirits,’ she intones, ‘what does the future
hold for the vengeance-seeker? Tell us!’

An unnerving whispering moan fills the air and t
spirits Madame Galbo has summoned speak: ‘The Isle
of Bones... That is where they must go... The spell
weaver’s books hold the key... The mask holds th
power... The heart of the idol... The Spirit of Darkness
comes...’ And then the voices fade.

Madame Galbo looks strained after the summoning
so, bidding her farewell, you leave the cottage. Ture
to 239.

161

Evading your blows the two tentacles seize you im
their slippery coils. There is nothing you can do as
you are dragged into the sea and under the water
Through the churning murk you see the Giant
Octopus that has made this cave its home. It is pulling
you towards its snapping, beaked mouth. In desper-
ation you manage to free you sword-arm, although
one of the creature’s tentacles still has you in it
tightening grip. You are going to have to fight for
your life.

162
GIANT OCTOPUS

As you are fighting the Octopus underwater you must
reduce your Attack Strength by 1 point for the
duration of this battle. If the battle lasts for more
Attack Rounds than your current SKILL score, turn to
190 straight away. If you defeat the creature in the
same number of Attack Rounds as your current SKILL
or fewer, turn to 379.

SKILL 9 STAMINA 10

162
You throw one portion of your Provisions into a far
comer of the room (cross 1 meal off your Adventure
Sheet). The mutant cat pounces on them and begins to
devour them greedily. However, as soon as you enter
the room, with a roar the beast bounds towards you.
You have no choice but to fight the monster.

NINE-TAILS

The cat attacks by trying to slash you with its great
claws and bite you with its huge fangs. However, if
the monster hits you, roll one dice. On a roll of 5 or 6, it
has hit you with its barbed tails instead: roll one dice
and deduct the number rolled from your STAMINA
score. You may Test your Luck to avoid this damage if
you wish. Keep track of how much sTAMINA you lose
in this way. If you survive this battle, turn to 235.

SKILL 10 STAMINA 10

163-164

163
You hand over the money (deduct 10 Gold Pieces
from your Adventure Sheet) and the soldiers part to let
you through. As you go Snide adds, ‘But remember,
if you should pass my way again...’ Without further
hesitation you hurry on, barely suppressing your
anger at such an insult. Turn to 287.

You eventually settle down with your back to a tree
and your sword at your side, just in case. You are
woken in the middie of the night by a loud buzzing.
Hovering above you are three, oval-shaped beetles,
each one as big as your head, with large mandibles
and shimmering emerald bodies. Being carnivorous,
the insects attack.

SKILL STAMINA
First JUNGLE BUG 5 5
Second JUNGLE BUG 4 4
Third JUNGLE BUG 5 4

If you kill all the flying beetles, you manage to get
back to sleep and at dawn are on your way again. If
you have the word ‘Noogal’ written on your
Adventure Sheet, turn to 327. If not, turn to 115.

165-167

165
Taken from the head of one of the race of little people
known as Elvins, who dwell in the Shamutanti Hills
of Kakhabad and worship the Trickster God Lord
Logaan, this lock of hair will bring you good fortune.
Whenever you are instructed to Test your Luck from
now on, you may deduct 1 from the dice-roll. Return

to 42.

166
Back in the outer entrance chamber of the temple,
choosing a way you haven't gone yet, will you pass
through the left-hand arch (turn to 216), the central
arch (turn to 392) or the right-hand arch (tur to 255)?

167
The clink of coins in his pot makes the blind man turn
his head in your direction. ‘Welcome, fellow traveller
on life’s highway,’ he says in cheerful greeting. ‘Give
me your hand and I will teil you what waits within
that unknown isle - the future.’ Somewhat
uncertainly, you stretch out your hand to the seer,
who, after groping the air, clasps it in a vice-like grip.
‘Ahhh,’ he breathes, ‘a brave soul that fights for truth
and justice. May Cheelah smile upon your en-
deavours. Let Luck and Chance guide you on your
path. Farewell.’ Is that all you get for 2 Gold Pieces?
The Master of Destiny releases your hand and says no
more. Will you now make an offering to the bearded
guru (turn to 393) or the mute fortune-teller (turn to
98), or will you go on your way (add 1 Hour and turn

to 334)?

EF CJ

SS OEE

168-169

168

At around noon the next day the previously clear sky
suddenly, and inexplicably, darkens. As the Fortune
sails on under the leaden sky another ship comes into
view off the port bow. It appears to be in a state of
terrible disrepair and is surrounded by a pall of sickly,
green mist. Conyn looks at the vessel through his
telescope and his face becomes ashen. You ask him
what is troubling him. ‘It is the Sea Maiden — a ghost
ship,’ he explains. ‘Folklore has it that its crew and
captain are cursed to sail the twelve seas for all
eternity. We should avoid it at all costs!’ You are now
curious about the Sea Maiden. If you want to try to
persuade Conyn to approach the ghost ship, turn to
390. If not, turn to 153.

169
Sure enough, in one cell you find five, half-starved
tribespeople, whom you release. Having thanked you
profusely for freeing them, they return the favour by
giving you any information they can that may help
you. They know nothing about the Pirates of the Black
Skull but do know the Mask Zombies’ secret: the
masks themselves imbue the Zombies with Quez-
kari’s power, and if removed the undead become
severely weakened. Knowing this, if you ever find
yourself in combat with Mask Zombies, rather than
fighting them in the usual way, you can try to remove
their tribal masks. To do this very specific task you
will have to reduce your Attack Strength by 2 points
but as soon as you win an Attack Round you grab the
Zombie’s mask and cast it aside; the Zombie loses

Eel [J

170-171

2 STAMINA points and 3 SKILL points. If you had not
saved the tribespeople, their fate would have been to
be turned into Mask Zombies too. The prisoners also
overheard the temple’s High Priest telling one of his
acolytes about a code or something and used the
phrase, “Back two, forward two. Back two, forward
two.’ Regain 1 Luck point for this knowledge and
then turn to 57.

170
The bracelet is made from leather embedded with the
razor-sharp teeth of a shark, thirty-eight in all, which
point outwards. It is an unusual item, which at the
moment does not seem to exhibit any magical
potential — but it may prove useful. Return to 42.

171
At last you come upon a rusted iron ladder set into
one wall of a tunnel, which leads up to a manhole
cover. Clambering out into the street above, you take
in great lungfuls of fresh sea-air, glad to be rid of the
vile stench of the sewers. Add 1 Hour and tum to 52.

172-175
172

You are suddenly reminded of the Talismonger’s
words about the Magical Compass you bought and
take it out of your backpack. Looking at it, you see that
the needle is pointing westwards. If you want to head
in the direction the compass is pointing, turn to 110. If
you would rather just explore the hills, turn to 65.

173
You duck just in time to avoid being hit by the dagger.
You then close on the old pirate. Turn to 318,

174
Turfed out into the street, feeling insulted and frus-
trated, you set off to look elsewhere. Add 1 Hour to
your total, and the word ‘Regnad’ to your Adventure
Sheet, and then turn to 334.

175
You are attracted to something lying in the soil of a
freshly dug grave, glinting in the moonlight. Bending
down, you pick it up ~ it is another doubloon, also
with two heads. Crivens had such a coin and was a

EY []

176-178

member of Cinnabar’s crew, and now you have two
men carrying a chest full of them through a deserted
cemetery at night! They must have something to do
with the Pirates of the Black Skull. You decide to
follow these smugglers. Test your Luck. If you are
Lucky, turn to 247. If you are Unlucky, turn to 284.

176

Clambering onto the statue, you force your sword
into an eye-socket. You are suddenly aware of a
hissing sound and see that purple smoke is pouring
out of the iguana’s-mouth. Being so close to it you
cannot avoid your head being surrounded by the
cloud of gas. You pass out and fall onto the chamber
floor. Death soon follows.

177
What sort of weapon are you using? If it is made of
bone and you know how to awaken the power within
it, convert the letters in its name into numbers using
the code A=1, B=2, C=3 up to Z=26, add the numbers
together and then turn to that paragraph. If you do
not know how to release the weapon’s magical
energies or you are not using a bone sword, turn to

345-

178
Drinking the ‘Infusion. of Fate’ has the same effect as
downing a Potion of Fortune. (Add 1 to your Initial
LUCK score and raise it to this new level.} Return to
217 and do something else.

179-181

179
Madame Galbo applies herb compresses to your
wounds, which knit together and heal within a matter
of minutes! (Restore your STAMINA and SKILL scores
to their Initial levels and regain 2 LUCK points.) ‘Now
you must be on your way,’ orders the old wisewoman.
Turn to 239.

180
Still shaking, you uncork the bottle of Antidote and
take a swig (reduce the amount left by one tot). The
tremors soon subside and the fever also passes,
leaving you able to go on your way. Tur to 262.

181

An eerie silence pervades the streets of the Temple
Quarter, creating a disconcerting atmosphere. Creep-
ing, cat-like, along the roads, you are suddenly sur-
prised by two figures that step out of the shadows in
front of you. Dressed in black habits, and with
sacrificial daggers raised, the Devotees advance
towards you. Drawing your sword, you prepare to do
battle. Fight them both at the same time.

SKILL STAMINA
First DEVOTEE 6 6
Second DEVOTEE 7 6

If the battle lasts longer than ten Attack Rounds, turn
at once to 264. If not, and you win the battle, turn
to 137.

Ee Ea

182-184

182
The evil Cinnabar draws a gleaming cutlass from its
scabbard and with a roar engages you in combat. At
the same time, the pirate-lord’s mangy parrot flies
Ik from its perch on his shoulder. “That's right, Jezebel,’
nip? ill laughs Cinnabar, ‘go for the eyes!’

Aah will
BF CINNABAR SKILL12 STAMINA 16

As you are being distracted by the parrot you must
reduce your Attack Strength by 1 point for this battle.
Also, each Attack Round roli one dice: if you roll a 5 or
6, Jezebel pecks you and scratches you with her claws
{lose 1 additional STAMINA point). If you manage to
defeat the murderer of your family, turn to 152.

183
if you offer the primitive some food, turn to 222. If you
give ita Flask of Grog or a Bottle of Rum, turn to 268. If
you offer it something else, turn to 246.

184
Creeping cautiously towards the cliff edge you see
that the light is actually that from a lantern, held by a
woman who is looking out to sea with her two com-
panions, a man and a pug-faced Man-Orc. Following
the direction of their gazes, you make out a stout ship
sailing towards the treacherous, jagged rocks, which
hne this stretch of coast. The light is guiding the ship
to its doom! These three must be Wreckers, felons
who deliberately cause shipwrecks for their own gain,
Scavenging the booty washed up from the sunken
vessels. You must stop them or another ship will fall

LJ) ey

Ve ™~ x —

185-186

prey to their cruel intentions! Fortunately, they are
still unaware of your presence here. Running at the
nearest scoundrel, sword drawn, you wound him
before he has a chance to defend himself. Fight the
Wreckers all together.

SKILL STAMINA
First WRECKER 7 5
Second WRECKER 6 7
Third WRECKER 8 7
If you win, turn to 369.
185

Passing through the sweet-scented cloud, you follow

the passageway until you reach a wooden door in the

right-hand wall, barred from the outside. Listening at
the door you can hear a scratching and snuffling
sound. Do you want to open the door (turn to 311) at
go on without hesitation (turn to 151)?

186

Having jumped ship you are now stranded in the,

middle of the Western Ocean with no sight of land
anywhere. The turquoise waters stretch in every
direction as far as the horizon. If you have the word
‘Enutrof recorded on your Adventure Sheet, turn to
257. If not, turn to 54.

187-189

187
Dropping his whip, the Half-Ogre moves in to attack
you with his club.

HALF-OGRE

If the Half-Ogre wins an Attack Round, roll one dice.
On a roll of 6, the blow from his club knocks you off
your feet. This means that you spend the next round
of combat getting up again, so you must reduce your
Attack Strength by 2 points for that Attack Round. If
you kill the Half-Ogre, turn to 328.

SKILL 8 STAMINA 9

188

You rush out of the temple into blazing sunshine. If
you can catch up with Cinnabar maybe you'll be able
to stop him before he leaves Bone Island. Running as
fast as you can, you hurry down through the hills to
the lagoon. Lose 1 STAMINA point due to this stren-
uous exercise. You reach the bay as evening ap-
proaches, just in time to see the Virago disappearing
towards the horizon on the open sea. After all your
efforts you are too late! If you have the word ‘Nediam’
written down on your Adventure Sheet, turn. to 352. If
not, turn to 263.

189
Raising the splintered shaft of wood in one hand you
are amazed when the undead pirate cowers back
hissing in fear. You quickly press home your
advantage and plunge the stake into the corpse’s
chest, transfixing the creature’s heart. Add 1 Luck
point and turn to 319.

EJ EJ

190-191

190

As you struggle valiantly against the Giant Octopus
beneath the waves, eventually the air in your lungs
runs out. Still submerged beneath the surface you
gasp for breath, inhaling great lungfuls of salty brine.
Whether you die by drowning or are devoured by the
Octopus first, the end result is the same. Your
adventure is over.

191

You step through the doorway into the watery light of
dawn: you are on the deck of the Virage. Milling about
in front of you are the crew and standing at the fo’c’sle
is Cinnabar himself, a mangy parrot perched on his
shoulder. Suddenly the evil captain looks round and,
seeing you, screams to his pirates to capture you.
There are far too many of them to take on by yourself
so you do the only thing you can: you have no choice
but to jump ship. The way to the side of the ship is
blocked by the ruffians so you run for the ngging.
Three pirates immediately step into your path.

SKILL
First PIRATE 6
Second PIRATE 5
Third PIRATE fi

Do not fight the Pirates in the usual way. Instead,
calculate Attack Strengths for yourself and the first

192-193

Pirate. If his is higher, you are captured, turn to 155. If

yours is, you have barged past him: move on to the
next Pirate and repeat the process until you have
either been captured (turn to 155) or evaded all three
of the rogues ranged against you (turn to 79).

192
Yammering cries, the shrieks of strange birds and the
chittering of insects fill the jungle with a constant
racophony. But what was that? Something else is
close by. Roll two dice. If you roll:

Turn to 53
Turn to 371
Turn to 320
Turn to 2
Turn to 245
Turn to 332
Turn. to 37
Turn to 85
Turn to 198
No encounter

“Jat & Ww bk

MO 65
©

11 OF 12

Each encounter, apart from number 11 or 12, can
secur only once. If you roll an encounter that has
Wready taken place, roll again. If you roll 11 or 12, turn
® the paragraph with the number you noted down
before coming here. Ensure that you cross off each
encounter as you choose it.

193
As you are trudging through the sludge and septic
muck of the tunnels, a huge serpentine creature bursts

Cd Ge]

194-195

from the foul water in front of you. The Sewer Sn
must be almost five metres long, and is coloured
disgusting grey-brown. It attacks immediately.

SEWER SNAKE

If you win, you go on until you eventually find a w
out of the sewers. Add 2 Hours and turn to 52.

SKILL 6 STAMINA

194

‘You have done very well,’ says the tribespeople’
Queen, ‘but you have not done well enough to prove
to us that your intentions are honourable. You must
leave our village.’ Before you go, however, Zytees
does tell you that her warriors have seen a ship
anchored in the lagoon on the eastern side of the
island. (Add the word ‘Noogal’ to your Adventure
Sheet.) Leaving the village you head off into the jun
once more (turn to 164).

195
‘That'll do nicely,’ smarms the guard, pocketing yo
gold and opening the gate, ‘This way,’ he say
leading you into the Old Fort. You soan find yourself
outside a grand set of double doors, The guard knocks
on the doors and having received the reply, ‘Enter!’ he
opens them, letting you pass into Governor Mor
targo’s audience chamber, Sitting behind a large
oak desk, in a high-backed chair, is a dignified but

bored-looking man, with close-cropped grey hair and.

wearing the uniform of a military commander, ‘Well?
he demands, impatiently.

196

‘Lord Montargo,’ you begin, ‘I am here to inform you
of a terrible threat to the security of your city. The
Pirates of the Black Skull are intending to return their
evil captain, Cinnabar, to life through the dark
practices of voodoo.’

‘What nonsense! Cinnabar was killed six months ago
by Conyn, the bounty hunter, The scoundrel’s body
was lost to the sea. How do you seriously expect me to
believe that he can now be brought back to life?’

‘Tam telling you the truth!’ you exclaim. ‘I have seen
evidence of the pirates’ activities myself. We must
find out where they are hiding. Do you want the Port
of Crabs to become threatened by Cinnabar and those
like him?’

‘Enough! I am not interested in your wild goose
chases and I do not have to listen to your paranoid
ramblings. There is no threat to the city. Guards!’
Four uniformed soldiers immediately burst into the
audience chamber. ‘My guest is just leaving.’ The
guards go to frog-march you away. Will you resist
them (turn to 236) or allow yourself to be escorted out
of the chamber (turn to 174)?

196
The spears just miss your back as you hurl yourself
forwards. Picking yourself up from the tunnel floor,
you reassess the situation. This place is proving to be
more dangerous by the minute. Do you want to
continue (turn to 228) or turn back and leave the caves
(turn to 279)?

LC} Ee

197-198

197

The trees soon begin to thin and in no time at all you
find yourself at the edge of an expanse of marshland.
The swamp is formed by a river delta where it meets
the sea. As it is the only way onwards, you set off
across it, wary of predatory swamp creatures. The
going is quite easy through the marsh and, as dusk
falls, you have almost reached dry land again. With
the ground underfoot becoming firmer with every
step you hear a loud buzzing getting closer too. And
then the huge insect is there in front of you, its
proboscis glistening with poison as it jabs at you. You
must fight the Giant Mosquito.

GIANT MOSQUITO SKILL 7 STAMINA 6

If you defeat the insect and lost any Attack Rounds to
Ht, turn at once to 299. If you managed to suffer no
wounds in the fight, regain 1 LUcK point and turn
fo 262.

Wate gy: of ' 7 Bat)

or it) si
i i) Lan Wit

We a ‘ va ld,

198
You step through clinging fronds into a clearing in
which a titanic struggle is taking place. There, in front
of you, two colossi of the sweltering jungle - a huge
grey-furred ape and a vicious, carnivorous lizard -
are fighting over disputed territory. The Great Ape’s
fists are pounding the Terrible Lizard’s scaly hide
whilst the saurus snaps at the ape with its deadly

a Se

—_
>),

7 a * —
_— :

199-201

jaws. Suddenly caught in the thick of things, what
will you do?

Side with the ape against the lizard? Turn to 215
Join in battle against the ape? Turn to 337
Try to skirt past the two monsters
without getting involved? Turn to 304
Watch the fight to its conclusion? Tum to 77
199
You also uncover a peculiar, eight-sided Blue Gem in

a silk-lined box (add this to your Adventure Sheet).
Having completed your search, you decide that it is
time to find out what is going on here and so head in
the other direction past the T-junction. Add 1 Hour to
your total and turn. to 13.

200
If you bought the Ivory Lion Charm, turn to 227. If
not, you can either look for more practical equipment
around the markets (turn to 351) or leave to continue
your quest (turn to 111).

201
Evading the grasping hands of the Zombies you rush
past them and along the new tunnel. Your heart
racing with adrenalin, you skid to a halt on entering
another cave. The Zombies are quite a way behind
you now, but there is something far worse ahead. A
fissure in the cave roof is open to the outside world
and much of the chamber is a tangle of sticky webs.
Crawling down from the crack on the glistening

202-203

threads is a creature you had hoped never to meet
again — the Scarachna! Since last you encountered the
hybrid, the spider-scorpion has regained its strength
and this time it is determined not to let you get away.

SCARACHNA

If the monster wins an Attack Round, roll one dice. On
a roll of 6, turn to 112. If you ever lose two Attack
Rounds in succession, turn to 336. If you are still
fighting after twelve Attack Rounds, turn to 237. If
you have killed the spider-scorpion within twelve
Attack Rounds, turn to 30.

SKILL il STAMINA 12

202
You are inside a room full of nautical instruments and
old charts. With a bang, the door slams shut behind
you. You watch, terrified, as sextants and other
objects rise into the air and the ship’s compass in the
room goes haywire. Then the wailing begins... Test
your Skill, If you succeed, turn to 116. If you fail, turn

to 76.

203
Hissing menacingly, the snakes slither towards you.
Fight them as if they were a single opponent.

SNAKES

The snakes have venomous bites and, if you lose
an Attack Round, will cause 4 sTAMINA points of
damage {unless you have some Poison Antidote:
taking one tot will keep the damage at 2 points). If you
win, turn to 331.

SKILL 8 STAMINA 11

EA] EJ

204-207

204
You cannot move the heavy, iron gate. If you are still
able to use a Potion of Giant-Strength, tur to 31. If
not, turn to 243.

205
With one of the jungle monsters dead, you are going
to have to fight the other as it prepares to defend its
territory once again. If the Great Ape won, turn to 330
to fight it, deducting any STAMINA points it lost in its
battle with the saurus, If the Terrible Lizard won, turn
to 278, deducting any STAMINA points it lost in its
battle with the ape.

206
“You were warned, stranger,’ the warrior intones and
two of them immediately attack. Fight them simul-
taneously.

SKILL STAMINA
First TRIBESMAN 8 7
Second TRIBESMAN 8 8

If you kill the warriors, the enraged villagers prepare
to exact their revenge. If you hang around here you
are sure to be killed so you flee, losing them in the
jungle. Turn to 164.

207
Pushing through the bustling hordes of gamblers, you
suddenly feel something pushed into your hand.
Quickly looking about you, you think you see an old
woman hurrying away but she is soon lost in the

208-209

crowds. You have been given a sealed envelope. You
wait until you are outside before breaking the wax-
seal and opening the envelope. Inside are a letter and
an iron key. The letter reads as follows:

If you are determined to defeat the Pirates of the Black
Skull, go fo room 101 at the Silent Donkey.
A Friend.

The key must be the one to the room in the inn. If you
ever want to follow up this contact, turn to the
paragraph with the same number as the room, but for
now add 2 Hours to your total and turn to 334.

208
You have no success in your search so you decide that
your best option is to head northeast back into the
island’s interior. Turn to 279.

209
Leaving the Grand Temple, you prepare to go on your
way. During the day, the Street of Holies is packed
with beggars, supplicants and worshippers. As you
descend the temple steps, you hear two voices raised
above the noise of the bustling crowds. One is shout-
ing, ‘Words of Wisdom! Words of Wisdom!’ while the
second is calling out, ‘Let the Master of Destiny guide
you on life’s journey!’ Looking round, you see three
men sitting cross-legged beside the road. Each is
dressed differently, in the manner of certain religious
groups, but in front of each of them is a small offering
pot. The closest of the men, with long hair and an
even longer beard, smiles at you and says, ‘Two Gold

CJ] Ey

210-211

Pieces is all we ask, and then we will reveal to you the
mysteries of the cosmos and what Fate has in store for
you.’ Do you want to make a donation to one of the
wise men (turn to 270) or will you leave the Temple
Quarter to look elsewhere for information (add 1
Hour and turn to 334)?

210
Taking the fetish in your hands does not produce any
ill effects so, thinking it could be useful later, you stow
the grim little idol in your backpack. Will you now
grab the pearl (turn to 388) or leave the temple
without further delay (tur to 188)?

211
Descending the stairs you are enticed onwards by the
smells of cooking. Entering a large, warm room in the
hold, you find yourself in the pirates’ kitchen and the
cook doesn’t appear too pleased at being interrupted.
Bladderwrack the Cook is a huge, blubbery man,
Stripped to the waist and sweating disgustingly.
Although his recipes for the crew are conventional
fare, it is known that his own tastes are more cannibal-
istic, and a necklace of finger bones attests to this fact.
Seeing that you are not one of the pirates, Bladder-
wrack picks up a pan of boiling water and huris it at
you. Test your Skill. If you succeed, turn to 35. If you

fail, turn to 339.

212-215

212
The corpse pirate lets out a gurgling laugh as you
wave the powerless wand at it. The undead horror
lashes out at you with its ragged fingernails, clawing
your face. (Lose 2 STAMINA points.) Tum to 147.

213
The dagger sinks into your shoulder. Lose 2 STAMINA
points and turn to 318.

214

The mass of fighting bodies parts and there stands
your quarry before you. Having fought your way past
his lackeys, you are face-to-face with Cinnabar, old
Bloodbones himself, at last. But he is no longer the
undead horror you encountered beneath the Port of
Crabs — he is now the debonair, handsome pirate-lord
he was before his death. Springing like a panther, you
sprint across the deck to reach Cinnabar. At the same
time the pirate captain raises a small crossbow and
fires. Test your Skill. If you succeed, turn to 375. If you
fail, turn to 102.

215
With you joining the fight against the Terrible Lizard,
the Great Ape soon prevails. With one last blow from
the ape’s huge fists, the saurus falls to the ground
either dead, or unconscious. The ape fixes you with its
beady black eyes. Rearing up on its haunches it
bellows and begins beating its chest. Will you prepare
to defend yourself (turn to 330), or will you run for
it (94)?

Ce) EC]

216-217

216

You have not travelled very far along the passageway
beyond the left-hand archway when the corridor
turns left into a small, dark, rough-hewn chamber.
Curiously, pieces of shipping tackle seem to have
been abandoned here, including a ship’s wheel, but
the object which intrigues you most lies in the middle
of the floor. It is a plain wooden coffin, draped with a
Jolly Roger. There is no way out of the chamber other
than the way you came in, so will you:

Search the chamber for any useful

items? Turn to 314
Open the flag-draped coffin? Turn to 36
Retrace your steps and pass

through the central archway? Turn to 392
Go back and choose the right-hand

archway? Turn to 255

a17

The box contains several empty bottles, no doubt
drunk by Balinac. However, there are two with their
seals still intact that are labelled. Do you want to:

Drink the ‘Essence of Expertise’? Turn to 154

Drink the ‘Infusion. of Fate’? Turn to 178
Study the Mythica? Turn to 47
Read the Arcanum? Turn to 5

Leave the wizard’s cell? Turn to 385

218-219

218

With your fingers round the handle of the door, you
freeze, hearing a floorboard creak outside the room. Is
there somebody there - somebody up to no good?
Silently, you unsheathe your sword, just in case, and
open the door but do not step through it. Instantly,
two black-robed figures leap into the doorway, coshes
raised. Determined to stop you succeeding in your
quest, the Devotees of Quezkari attack. In the narrow
doorway you can fight these acolytes of evil one at a
time.

SKILL STAMINA
First DEVOTEE 6 7
Second DEVOTEE 6 6

If you win, a rapid search of the fanatics’ bodies
reveals nothing of value to you so you quickly leave
the inn. Add 1 Hour and the word “Yeknod’ to your
Adventure Sheet, then turn to 287.

219
Reaching the edge of the cave you can now see that a
narrow ledge, just a few metres above the crashing
waves, leads into the gloomy depths beyond. Do you
want to continue into the cave (turn to 354) or would
you rather give up on this course of action and return
to the cliff-top (turn to 322).

220-223

220
To your surprise, you find a sturdy door in the base of
the tower, the only way in. Being as quiet as possible,
you try the door but discover that it is locked. What
will you do now?

Attempt to break down the door?

Investigate the flickering light?

Leave the lighthouse (add 1 Hour)
and. look elsewhere for the pirates? Turn to 52

Tum to 326
Turn to 184

221

You find yourself exploring the pirates’ hideout, a
collection of meeting rooms, storerooms and sleeping
chambers, but all appear to be deserted! Do you want
to remain here and make a thorough search of the
hideout (turn to 305) or would you rather return to
the T-junction and follow the tunnel in the opposite
direction (turn to 13)?

222
The Balinac snatches the food from you and wolfs it
down (cross off 1 meal from your Provisions), allow-
ing you to pass. Turn to 125.

223
Will you now look at the Arrow of Providence (turn to
81) or Calabrius’s Calculator (turn to 294), or leave the
Gambling Pits (turn to 207)?

[] Ee

eee eee ee

224-226

224
While you are recounting recent events, a tribesman

approaches Zyteea and you recognise him as the one
you saved from the Praying Mantis. He whispers
something to his Queen and when you are finished
she says, “Toombei tells me that you saved his life and
that you are a noble warrior. Therefore you are
welcome here.’ Turn to 142

225
As you rummage about inside the dead pirate’s
coffin, you disturb a number of Blood Maggots that
were lurking there. Each of the eyeless grubs latches
onto your flesh with its barbed mouthparts. Roll one
dice. This is how many of the maggots bite you. Lose
the same number of STAMINA points. Having man-
aged to pull the horrid creatures from your ravaged
flesh, you hastily depart the vampire’s chamber. You
have no desire to remain there any longer. If you have
the word ‘Eripmav’ written on your Adventure Sheet,
turn to 58. If not, turn to 166.

226
Armed with pole-arms, the Mask Zombies are
dangerous enemies.

SKILL STAMINA
First MASK ZOMBIE 8 7
Second MASK ZOMBIE 8 6

If you overcome your adversaries, turn to 291.

227-229

227

‘If you’re worried about voodoo, you should go and
see Madame Galbo,’ says the Talismonger and tells
you how to find her cottage in Mandrake’s Lane. If, in
future, you are given a chance to visit Madame Galbo,
you may do so by turning to 100 (make a note of this
paragraph number on your Adventure Sheet). But for
now, you can either look for more practical equip-
ment around the markets (tum to 351) or leave to
continue your quest (turn to 111).

228
Not much further on, the tunnel comes to an end
before a blank rock wall at the foot of which is a
murky pool. There is no sign of any treasure and there
appears to be no way on... unless it’s through the pool!
But then you don’t know how deep the pool is or for
how long you may have to hold your breath. Will you
dive into the water (turn to 71) or now tum back (tum

to 279)?

229
Leaping between the man and the Mantis you ready
your sword. Its forelegs raised ready to strike and
snapping its mandibles, the monstrous insect attacks.

GIANT PRAYING
MANTIS

The Mantis is covered in armour-like chitin so blows
against it will only inflict 1 point of damage (2 points
if you use LUCK in this battle and are Lucky, but no
points if you are Unlucky). If you win, turn to 368.

SKILL 7 STAMINA 7

230-231

230
Crump! The heavy iron anchor hits you in the side, the
force of the blow knocking you to the floor. Lose 3
STAMINA points. Looking into the fog you can make
out a shadowy figure advancing towards you.
Desperately, you try to unsheathe your weapon. Turn
to 231.

231

The swathes of mist part and a tall, barrel-chested
man, built like an ox and with muscles like ship’s
cables, stands before you. In his hands he holds a
heavy iron chain on the end of which swings the
anchor. ‘Stranger, let me introduce myself. I’m the
Anchor Man,’ growls the pirate assassin, ‘and now it’s
time to die.” As the thug prepares to use the anchor
against you like a morning-star, you spot the black
skull tattooed on the back of his right hand.

ANCHOR MAN SKILL 9 STAMINA 10

Every ime the Anchor Man strikes you, roll one dice:
on a roll of 5-6, the anchor causes you 3 STAMINA
points of damage rather than the usual 2. If you are
lying on the floor, if you win the first Attack Round
you do not injure the pirate (do not deduct any
STAMINA points} but you manage to unsheathe your
sword and fend off the assassin, so giving you time to
get to your feet. From then onwards, you can fight as
normal. If you win two consecutive Attack Rounds
against the Anchor Man, tum at once to 271. If he wins
two consecutive Attack Rounds, turn to 105. If you
defeat the assassin, turn to 159.

Cl EF
eee

232-233
232

The fireball crashes into the deck, smashing a hole in
the rotten planks, but still the phantom vessel skims
onwards over the sea. The Virago cannot out-run
Velyarde’s craft and before the pirates really know
whal is going on, the undead crew of the Sea Maiden,
followed by yourself, are boarding the galleon. Battle
immediately ensues as the undead sailors avenge
themselves on Cinnabar’s cronies. Roll one dice, If
you roll 1-2, turn to 15; 3-4, turn to 131; 5-6, tum to
298.

233
Choosing somewhere you haven't already been, will
you:

Descend the staircase? Tum to 211
Open the far door? Tur to 191
Open the door marked ‘Captain’? Turn to 97

Open the door to the right? Turn to 141
Open the door to the left? Tum to 127

234-235

234

Although you attack valiantly, your weapon proves
ineffective against the conjured horror. With one
sweep of a tiger-like paw, the Spirit-Beast hurls you
into the side of a hut, cracking several of your ribs.
(Lose 5 STAMINA points and 1 SKILL point.) Dropping
the body of the dead tribesman, the thing goes on a
rampage, crushing buildings and killing villagers that
are in its path, Eventually the Usai manage to drive
the Spirit away, thanks to the spells of the tribe’s
shaman, but not before it has devastated their village.
When moming comes there is much relief all round.
Disheartened that you were unable to help Queen
Zyteea and her people you set off for the Temple of
Quezkari in the mountains (lose 2 LUCK points and
turn to 115).

235
Exhausted after such a titanic struggle, you take a few
minutes to recover from the fight, lf you have some
Poison Antidote and the beast stung you at all with its
tails, you may recover half the staMINA points lost in
this way by drinking one tot. Now that you are no
longer being threatened by a ravening monster, you
take Hime to look around the room you are in, It is a
spartan affair, containing just a tew pieces of broken
furniture, but on the other side of it is a door leading
onwards, You also notice an entrance to a cave with
the iron portcullis that barred it raised. Obviously the
pirates let the Nine-Tails out into the main room to
stop anyone from following them. ‘he mutant itself
was captured by Cinnabar on one of his voyages and

Ei] EY

236-237

brought back to the Port of Crabs to guard the
entrance to his innermost sanctum. Do you want to
open the door (tum to 323) or would you rather
investigate the cat’s cave first (turn to 69)?

236

Overcome by the guards, you soon find yourself
languishing in a stinking prison cell. (Add 1 Hour to
your total.) Eventually a stem-faced figure appears at
the grille in the cell door. It is the head of the City
Guard, Captain Snide. ‘Enjoying your stay?’ he says
with a mocking sneer. “Well let’s say ten Gold Pieces
and you can go on your way.’ Will you pay the
sadistic Captain the bribe, if you can afford to (turn to
254), or will you wait and attempt to get out by
yourself when the coast is clear (turn to 19)?

237
With your battle against the Scarachna still raging, the
Mask Zombies catch up with you. Three of them start
to attack you while you are still fighting the spider-
scorpion! You must now fight all four opponents at
the same time.

SKILL STAMINA
First MASK ZOMBIE ~ 6
Second MASK ZOMBIE 8 6
Third MASK ZOMBIE 7 5

If you somehow manage to defeat all your opponents,
turn to 30.

238—239

238

Conyn and his crew remain on board the Fortune as
you leap across the gap between the two ships and
onto the ill-fated Sea Maiden. It appears to be deserted
so you decide to descend below decks to explore
further. Creeping along an empty corridor, you hear
a frantic squeaking and out of the gloom scampers
a horde of ghostly rats, fangs gleaming and eyes
glowing red — and you are directly in their way. Will
you flee while you still have the chance (turn to 72) or
stand your ground (tum to 289)?

239
Add 1 Hour to the time you have taken on your quest
so far. Leaving Mandrake’s Lane, you consider where
to start looking for the pirates’ hideout. Will it be:

The Temple Quarter? Turn to 181
The Port of Crabs’ inns and taverns? Turn to 150
The ruined lighthouse? Turn to 146
The docks? Turn to 67
The sewers under the city? Tum to 355
The cemetery? Turn to 83

240-243

240
Losing your balance at the last moment, you fall
headfirst into the ten-metre deep pit full of gleaming
spear-length iron spikes. The traps inside the Temple
of Quezkari were not designed to be survived.

241
Somehow, you manage to evade capture by running
through the alleyways and backstreets of the port.
(Add 1 Hour to your total.) If itis still daylight, turn to
334. If night has already fallen, turn to 52.

~

242
Along the shoreline you find several coconuts and a
bunch of bananas, all in all enough food for 3 meals.
Return to 300 and choose another option.

243
The portcullis had to be heavy to stop the Nine-Tails
getting out so you have no hope of lifting it. Trapped
in the cave, there is no way that you will be able to
continue on your quest.

244-246

244

Picking up the skull, you are suddenly filled with an
almost overpowering sense of fear and paranoia. You
have suffered a terrible curse (lose 2 LUCK points and
1 SKILL point)! Involuntarily, you drop the skull,
smashing it on the floor. Turn to 55,

245
There is a movement in the bushes in front of you and
a tall, flightless bird bursts into your path. The
creature has an axe-shaped bill and, squawking, it
attacks, trying to peck you, and kick you with its huge
clawed feet.

AXEBILL

If you kill the bird, wondering what other surprises
the fauna of the island has in store, you set off again
through the boiling jungle. Turn to the paragraph
with the same number as the one you wrote down.

SKILL 9 STAMINA 13

246

The creature grabs your gift and, having sniffed it,
hurls it away into the sea (cross the object off your
Adventure Sheet). It then proceeds to growl mena-
cingly. Will you quickly offer it some food (turn to
222), a Flask of Grog or Bottle of Rum (turn to 268), or
will you prepare to defend yourself (tum to 95) or run
for it into the jungle (turn to 125)?

Cy G3

247

247

| The smugglers eventually stop outside an old tomb
over-grown with moss and ivy. Pushing open the
granite door, they disappear inside. You wait a few
minutes before lighting your lantern and passing
through the portal yourself. (Add 1 Hour to your
total.) Your lantern reveals a passageway leading
away into the gloom. As soon as you step over the
threshold, another light becomes visible at the other
end of the corridor and starts to move towards you.
Gliding along the passage is the apparition of an old
man with sunken eye-sockets and _ talon-like
fingernails clogged with grave-dirt. The sight of the
glowing spectre fills you with a sense of dread and
your blood runs cold when you see that the lantern it
carries has been fashioned from a human skull. From
the tales you have heard told of the Port of Crabs, you
know that this must be the ghostly Jack A-Lantern.
The ghost does not attack you but instead comes to a
halt a few metres from you. Its jaw drops open and the
| apparition utters one word: ‘Paasswoord...’ Do you

know a password? If so, now is the time to say it.

Convert the letters of the password into numbers

using the code A=1, B=2, C=3 and so on: then add up

the numbers and turn to the paragraph, which is the

same as the total. If you do not know a password or
the paragraph you turn to makes no sense, turn to 269.

248-251

248
Roll three dice, unless you have an Ivory Lion Charm,
in which case just roll two. If the total rolled is less
than or equal to your STAMINA score, turn to 82. If itis
greater, turn to 62.

249
The pressure in your lungs becomes unbearable and,
before you can free yourself from the chain, you open
your mouth. Freezing brine rushes into your air
passages and you drown. The Anchor Man has
succeeded, Your adventure is over.

250
Seizing the opportunity while your captors are
distracted by Malefact, you twist free of their grasp
and leap to your feet. The good Doctor and your two
captors attack at once. Fight them all at the same time.

SKILL STAMINA
DOCTOR MALEFACT 7 6
GARBOIL 6 8
STRAKE 7 7

If you win within 15 Attack Rounds, you make your
break for freedom (turn to 79). If not, you are
surrounded and taken prisoner again (turn to 107).

251
The spell animating it broken, the Golem collapses
into a heap of gold and jewels. The bone weapon
served you well in your fight with Blackscar’s cursed
hoard and its edge was not dulled by the Golem’s

252-253

hard body, so you decide to keep hold of it (note it
down on your Adventure Sheet. Whenever you are in
combat with Undead, spirits or magical creatures
using this weapon, you may add 1 point to your
Attack Strength.) With your new weapon, will you
now leave the caves straight away (turn to 279) or first
take some of the treasure after all your efforts to find it
(turn to 123)?

252
While you are making your search you are bitten by a
venomous Redback Spider (lose 3 STAMINA points).
Having completed your search you decide that it is
time to find out what is going on here and so head in
the other direction past the T-junction. Add 1 Hour to
your total and turn to 13.

253
Leaving the room you come face-to-face with three of

the Virago’s crew in the corridor. In the confines of the
passage you are grabbed and dragged through the far
door. Turn to 155.

a

eeeeeeoeoeororororeeeeee

254-256

254
You hand over the money through the grille (deduct

the 10 Gold Pieces from your Adventure Sheet) and
with a clattering of bolts, Snide unlocks the cell door.
As you go, the corrupt Captain calls out to you, ‘But
remember, if you should cross my path again...’ Tum
to 287.

255
Passing under the archway, you find yourself follow-
ing another tunnel even deeper into the mountain
Then there is a click as your foot touches a fixed stone
and for a split second you wonder if you have made a
mistake. Reacting instantly, you throw yourself
forward to avoid the trap. Test your Luck, If you are
Lucky, turn to 86. If you are Unlucky, turn to 157.

256
The water does not come higher than your waist.
You are half way across, in the midst of the stream,
when the water begins to froth and boil. You feel the
pinpricks of tiny, sharp teeth biting (lose 2 STAMINA
points) and look down into the water to see that a
shoal of Piranhas has decided to make you its next
meal.

PIRANHAS

To calculate the Piranhas’ STAMINA score, roll one
dice and add 6. This is the total number of the
voracious fish attacking you. Each fish has 1 STAMINA
point. If you defeat the frenzied feeders, you are able

SKILL 6 STAMINA see below

257

to finish crossing the river and climb out onto the
opposite bank. Turn to the paragraph with the
number you noted down previously.

257

Treading water, you catch sight of a vessel in the
distance. Waving your arms furiously, you succeed in
attracting the crew’s attention. The sailors immedi-
ately set a course to pick you up. The ship comes
alongside and you are hauled on board. Fortunately
your oilskin backpack has kept all your Provisions
and possessions safe and dry. You are greeted by a
handsome man whose face is tanned from exposure
to the elements and scarred on one side. ‘Welcome to
the Fortune,’ he says. ‘I am her captain and a bounty
hunter by trade. My name is Conyn.’ What, Conyn the
bounty hunter - the man who killed Cinnabar? ‘The
very same,’ he admits proudly. ‘But tell me, who are
vou and how come we find you alone in the middle of
the ocean?’

You relate your tale to a credulous Conyn over some
fine Femphreyan port in his quarters, and by the time
your story is done his expression has lost its former
cheeriness. ‘Will you help me stop Cinnabar?’ you
ask.

‘Of course I shall,’ says Conyn, resolutely, ‘but how
are we to find him? Do you know where the Virago
was headed?’ If you do, you should have two
coordinates, Subtract the easterly distance from the
southerly one and turn to the paragraph with the
same number as the result. If the paragraph you tum

C) By

EN OeeEEeEeEe—E————————————

258

to makes no sense, or you have no idea where to go,
there is nothing you can do to follow Cinnabar and so
you cannot stop him. You have failed in your quest!

258

“You accuse me of cheating?’ exclaims Armarno,
incensed, ‘I have never been so insulted in all my
days. Just because my hand is faster than your eye!’
Angered by the trickster’s words, you jump to your
feet and, in doing so, knock over the table. The three
cards fall onto the floor — they are all black! Armarno
must have palmed the white. You were right all along.
Cursing the man, you prepare to unsheathe your
sword but stop, feeling a strong hand on your
shoulder. The gruff voice of a Troll growls in your ear.
T said, no fighting.’ Before you can stop them, the two
Trolls snatch your sword from you and between them
deposit you weaponless, and with your pride bruised,
in the street outside. Without your sword, you will
have to fight with your Attack Strength reduced by 3
points until you can get hold of another weapon.
Disgruntled, you leave to search elsewhere (add 2
Hours and turn to 334).

259-261

259
You cross the log safely and once you are on the other
side the blindfold is removed and you are taken
before Queen Zyteea again. “You have passed the first
part of your test,’ she says. ‘For the second and final
part will you choose the Challenge of the Cat (turn to
34) or the Challenge of the Shell (turn to 290)?’

260
Test your Luck. If you are Lucky, turn to 109. If you are
Unlucky, will you move on to Calabrius’s Calculator
{turn to 294), visit ‘The Amazing Armarno’ (turn to 9),
or leave the Gambling Pits (turn to 207)?

261

Madame Galbo takes three substances from some of
the jars in front of her on the table and mixes them
together in her mortar. “Wraith Grass seeds, pow-
dered human bones, and dried Basilisk’s blood
combine to make a potent defence against those
unfortunates resurrected from their graves to walk
the world as Zombies.’ The old wisewoman gives you
the resulting powdery compound in a stoppered
gourd. Madame Galbo explains that there is enough
Zombie Dust for four uses. You may use the powder
once for each encounter you have with Zombies. Each
time you use it, one of these undead creatures will be
repelled so you can treat the outcome as if you had
killed it. Make a note of this on your Adventure Sheet
and then turn to 239.

rd td

262-263

262
Safely out of the marsh at last, you settle down to
sleep under the stars. After your encounter with the
mosquito the night passes peacefully and you wake
the next day feeling refreshed. (Regain 2 STAMINA
points.) Keen to find the pirates, you set off again at a
brisk pace and soon enter a range of low, scrub-
covered hills. Progressing further, you hear laughter
coming from behind one outcrop. Climbing to the top
you look down and are surprised to see a roughly
made shelter. Dancing around in front of it, chuckling
to himself, is a skinny old man with a long, straggly
white beard and large straw hat. His clothes are
tattered and torn and he looks like he might originally
have come from the Old World. Looking up he sees
you and calis out, ‘Ho, stranger! Lovely weather for
the time of year.’ The man then bursts out laughing
again: he is obviously totally mad! ‘You'll be looking
for Blackscar’s treasure then.’ What is the old lunatic
whittering on about? Do you want to press him about
the treasure (turn to 360), talk to him, hoping to find
out more about the island and its inhabitants (turn to
381), or leave the insane castaway and explore the

hills (turn to 65)?

263
You fali to your knees on the sand with your head in
your hands. Stranded on Bone Island there is nothing
you can do to stop Cinnabar returning to the Port of
Crabs and succeeding with his wicked scheme.

L} Ea

264-267

264
As you are fighting, several other Devotees round a
comer and it is not long before you are restrained.
There is a sudden, sharp blow to the back of your head
and you blackout... Turn to 158.

265

As the last Zombie slumps to the floor, you hear a
voice calling for help in a strange tongue, but one that
you understand, from one of the cells. Do you want to
help whoever is imprisoned here (turn to 169) or
would you rather net waste any more time here and
continue your search of the temple to find Cinnabar
(turn to 57)?

266
You turn round and come face-to-face with two black-
robed figures, their faces hidden by the hoods of their
habits. Wielding heavy coshes, the Devotees advance
on you. You will have to fight them both at the same
time.

SKILL STAMINA
First DEVOTEE 7 5
Second DEVOTEE 6 6
If you win, turn to 126.
267

In no time at all the Fortune is heading southeast
across the Western Ocean. While on the voyage you
rest and recover some of your strength. (Restore up to
4 STAMINA points.) After a day you are approaching

268-269

the Crab Reefs. Conyn’s helmsman skilfully directs
the vessel] through the treacherous waters and it looks
like the Fortune is going to get through unscathed.
Then at the last minute disaster strikes! There is a
terrible grating sound as the Fortune’s hull scrapes
across something in the channel and comes to a halt.
At the same time, several pairs of enormous pincers
emerge from the sea. The ship is under attack from
Giant Crabs. You attack the nearest of the huge
crustaceans clambering up the vessel’s side.

GIANT CRAB SKILL 7 STAMINA 9
If you kill the Crab, turn to 370.
268

The primitive grabs the container and gulps down its
contents. A smile slowly curls its lips and the creature
addresses you. ‘Thank you,’ it mutters. ‘Tt is good
wine. Master had good wine. Magical wine. Made
Balinac see strange things and feel dizzy. Balinac take
you to Master’s cell. You come?’ If you want to go
with the primitive, turn to 24. If not, you set off alone
into the jungle (turn to 125).

269

‘Intruder!’ screams the pirate-ghost and flies at you,
shrieking. You draw your weapon but every ime you
strike the horror, your blade passes straight through
it, whereas you feel the spectre’s claws tearing at your
flesh like cruel knives. There is no way you can defeat
the ghost. An unpleasant death awaits you and your
adventure is most definitely over.

Ey CE

nT =f EE ________ __-____

270-271

270
You pause while you try to decide which of these wise
men to consult, The long-haired man is wearing a
loose-fitting orange robe and is seated on a board of
long iron nails, with apparently no discomfort. The
second seer, the self-proclaimed Master of Destiny, is
bald and wears a grey robe covered with mystic
symbols. You now also notice that he is blind. The last
figure is swathed from head to toe in festering rags
and in front of him sits a deck of cards. He says
nothing. The only way you are going to get anything
out of these characters is if you make them an offering
of 2 Gold Pieces. Which will it be?

The bearded guru? Turn to 393
The sightless seer? Turn to 167
The speechless fortune-teller? Turn to 98

271
Under your relentless onslaught, the pirate stumbles
backwards, getting his feet caught up in the heavy
chain, and falls onto the hard, wooden planks,
dropping the anchor. Quickly, seizing the oppor-
tunity, you give the anchor a shove, pushing it off the
jetty and into the water. The anchor sinks rapidly,
pulling the Anchor Man into the harbour. Unable to
free himself from the tangled chain, the panicking
pirate disappears from view under the dark waters,
never to surface. (Make a note of the word ‘Rohcna’
on your Adventure Sheet.) You continue your search
for secret entrances a while longer but find none, so
you give up looking here. Add 1 Hour and turn to 52.

272-273
272

The ledge crumbling away behind you, you race
onwards as the crashing of rocks echoes through the
cavern. Ahead of you a great crack appears across the
path and before you even have a chance to leap over
it, the entire section you are on gives way, plunging
you to your death.

273

‘As you drop through the broken slats of the bridge
you grab at the rough ropes that hold it all together.
You manage to grab hold of a knotted cord halting
your abrupt drop but jarring your shoulder. (Lose 1
STAMINA point.) You hang over the yawning gulf
beneath you for a moment, recovering from the shock,
before hauling yourself back up onto the bridge and
cautiously continuing along the rest of the way. At
last you step off the bridge, entering the cliff-face
through the skull’s open mouth. You find yourself ina
high-ceilinged, torch-lit tunnel, which cuts its way
deep into the mountain. It is not long before the
‘tunnel opens out into a large, square chamber.
Hideous painted carvings adorn the walls here but
there is nothing else of interest in the room. However,
three archways in the opposite wall lead onwards into
the temple, Will you proceed through the archway to
the left (turn to 216), through the one in the centre
(turn to 392), or by passing under the archway to the
right (turn to 255)?

274-276

274
As you stroll boldly into the village you are
immediately surrounded by several warriors. If you
have a Darkwood Armband, turn to 56. If not, turn to
113.

275

The door opens and you step through into a large,
circular room. At its centre is a magnificent sight: the
biggest crystal you have ever seen stands on a plinth,
glowing with an inner light. However, covering the
floor around the plinth are countless writhing snakes,
and despite the mystical beauty of the crystal, an
incipient sense of evil permeates this place. You are
sure the artefact has something to do with the power
of Quezkari on the island. If you want to try to destroy
the huge crystal, turn to 203. If not, you will have to
leave and return to the passage, turn to 329.

276
Turning your back on the undead pirate was a bad
idea. It is on you in a flash and sinks its unnaturally
developed fangs into the bad of your neck (lose 2 ~
STAMINA points). You have no choice now but to
defend yourself with your sword. Turn to 147.

277-278

277

The Usai are full of gratitude for you now that you
have rid them of the High Priest's Spirit-Beast. Queen
Zyteea explains that the evil wizard summoned it to
destroy another village on the island and that it had
also ‘haunted’ them for several nights. Looking at the
bone weapon Zyteea says, ‘I am sure that with
Nightdeath in your hands you will be able to
vanquish both Ramatu and Cinnabar. But to help you
further I give you this Bolarang.’ She hands you a
peculiar looking wooden cross with struts of equal
length that end in curved points. The Bolarang is used
like a throwing dagger but always returns to its
owner once thrown. Before a fight you may use this
weapon against one opponent: Test your Skill and, if
you succeed, reduce their sTAMINA by 2 points. At
dawn, with the tribespeople’s praises ringing in your
ears, you leave the village. Zyteea also told you that
her warriors had seen a ship anchored in the lagoon to
the southeast, so will you head in that direction (tum
to 10) or into the mountains to find the Temple of
Quezkari (turn to 115)?

278
No sooner than the ape is lying dead on the floor of
the clearing, the Terrible Lizard turns on you with a
primeval roar.

TERRIBLE LIZARD

H you win, leaving the two corpses of the colossi behind
you, you continue on your way. Turn to the para-
graph with the number you noted down previously.

Cel Ee]

SKILL 7 STAMINA 11

—_———— aE 2.00 EE SSS SS

Se

279-282

279
Leaving the hills behind you, you set off northeast-
wards, towards the centre of the island again. Your
route takes you through the easternmost part of the
marsh once more, back in the direction of the dense
jungle. Roll one dice. If you roll 1-4, make a note of the
number 397 and turn to 192. If you roll 5-6, turn to 359.

280
The water inside the cave now begins to boil and from
the turmoil rises a hideous grey-green monstrosity.
Reaching for you with sucker-lined tentacles, the
Giant Octopus intends to pull you into its snapping,
beaked mouth and devour you. Once again you find
yourself fighting for your life.

GIANT OCTOPUS SKILL g STAMINA 10

If the Octopus ever scores two successful hits in
succession, turn to 46. If you kill it, turn to 73.

281
Barrels and crates from the Fortune are among the
items washed up among the driftwood, and could
contain something of use to you. Roll one dice. If the
number you roll is odd, turn to 387; if itis even, turn to
145.

282
You turn the corner and find the old man standing in
front of you. ‘So nice of yer ta join us,’ laughs the
pirate. ‘As they says, old Crivens always gets his
man.’ There is a sudden swishing sound and you

Cd GJ

283

receive a sharp blow to the back of your head.
Instantly you lose consciousness. Turn to 158.

283
Almost no vegetation gtows in the dusty, windswept
highlands, Entering a steep gully you are horrified to
see that it is lined with stakes on which are human
skulls, picked clean by vultures. At the top of the guily
you find yourself at the edge of a precipitous gorge, at
the bottom of which, one hundred metres below, is a
fast-flowing river. The stakes mark out the path to a
rope bridge slung across the chasm, which leads
directly into the side of a cliff into which has been
carved a massive skull with a feathered headdress. In
the distance, surrounded by rocky crags, you can also
make out a stepped stone building. You know that
you have found the Temple of Quezkari! You have no
option but to cross the rope bridge. Test your Luck. If
you are Lucky, tum to 378. If you are Unlucky, turn to

284-286

284
Hearing you, the two smugglers drop the chest and

draw cutlasses from their belts. You will have to fight

them both at the same time.

SKILL STAMINA
First SMUGGLER 8 7
Second SMUGGLER - 8

If you win, tam to 373.

285

The cannibalistic cook disposed of, you manage to
collect enough food for 4 meals before you leave the
kitchen (note these down in the Provisions box on
your Adventure Sheet) and sample some of
Bladderwrack’s broth (restore up to 4 STAMINA
points). As there is no other way on, retuming to the
top of the staircase you decide which door to go
through. Will it be:

The far door? Turn to 191
The door to the left? Turn to 127
The door to the right? Turn to 141
The door marked ‘Captain’? Turn to 97

286
You brandish the green jade statuette before the
unearthly creature but nothing happens. Quezkari
lashes out at you with a taloned hand (lose 2 STAMINA
points). You have no choice now but to retaliate with
your sword. Turn to 177.

El Ed

————ooEOeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeee
287-289

287

Night has already fallen by the time you start to look
for the pirates’ hidden base. At least that should make
your activities more covert and less conspicuous. If
you have reason to go to Mandrake’s Lane, now is the
time to do so. If not, where will you look first for the
pirates: around the docks (turn to 67), at the ruined
lighthouse on the promontory to the south-east of the
port (turn to 146), in the sewers beneath the port (tum
to 355), in the taverns and inns of the city (turn to 150),
at the cemetery outside the city walls (turn to 83) or in
the Temple Quarter (turn to 181)?

288

A bell above the door rings as you enter what looks
like nothing more than a quaint, tidy workroom.
Framed maps are hung on the walls and «
bespectacled Dwarf is poring over a chart at his work-
desk. As you enter, he looks up and asks if he can help
you. You inquire as to whether he has heard of Bone
Island. ‘Hmm, I’m not sure. My memory’s not what it
was, you know,’ says the Dwarf with a twinkle in his
eye. Do you want to see if you can prompt his memory
with a couple of Gold Pieces (turn to 156) or will you
leave the cartographer’s (tum to 334)?

289
The ship's rats pour past you but do not attack!
(Restore 1 LUCK point.) As the squeaking fades, you
continue along the corridor. You soon reach the top of
a staircase that leads down into the hold but before
that are two doors. Thick green mist pours from under

290-291

the door to the right while the one to the left emanates
a bone-numbing cold. Will you:

Open the left-hand door? Turn to 353
Open the right-hand door? Turn to 202
Go down the staircase? Tum to 26

290
In a clear, sandy area between the huts rests the
largest shell you have ever seen: it is boulder-shaped
and at least three metres across. ‘This is the shell of a
Giant Cowrie, which live in a lagoon to the south,’
Zyteea explains, ‘and you must lift it’ Putting your
arms around the huge molluse’s shell you heave with
all your might. Roll four dice. If the total rolled is less
than or equal to your STAMINA score, you succeed in
your task (tum to 142). Lf the total rolled is greater,
you fail to lift the shell (turn to 194).

291
With the zombies disposed of, you can now see that
the intricate carving on the stone door is quite clearly
a puzzle of some sort, which must be linked to the
opening mechanism somehow. If you want to solve
the puzzle to open the door, tum to 372. If not, you
leave the semicircular chamber and follow the
corridor in the opposite direction (turn to 329).

—— o

292-293
292:

Finding you more of a challenge than its usual prey,
the Scarachna desists from its attack and retreats back
into the jungle canopy, leaving you free to continue
your trek unhindered. If you were stung at all by the
monster you may use one tot of Poison Antidote (if
you have some) to restore up to half the sraAMINA
points you lost in this way.

Kt is about time you decided exactly where you are
going. At present you are travelling in an easterly
direction. Consulting your map of Bone Island again,
will you continue eastwards (make a note of the
number 164 on your Adventure Sheet and turn to 192),
head southeast (turn to 397) or change course totally
and go southwards (turn to 68)?

293
Having smashed the bottle, and been cut by a shard of
glass (lose 1 STAMINA point), you wait for a minute in
tase the sound of breaking glass has attracted
anyone’s attention. No pirates burst into the cabin so
you proceed to examine the wreckage of the ship.
Inside its fragile hull is a scroll. Unrolling the
parchment you see that it is a map of a place called

_ Bone Island (see the illustration opposite this page).

Written at the bottom of the map are the words, ‘460
leagues south’. Taking the map with you, you decide
that it is time to leave Cinnabar’s cabin. Test your Luck.
If you are Lucky, turn to 233. If you are Unlucky, turn
tO 253.

Cl EJ

294~296

294
Calabrius’s Calculator is a large, mechanical contrap-

tion, made up of countless cogs, levers and crank-
shafts. The main feature of the machine, however, isa
large panel with five windows in it, behind which are
five drums with numbers embossed on them. Stand-
ing next to the calculating device is its operator, a
wizardly-looking man who you assume is Calabrius.
‘Step up, step up. Who will accept the challenge of
Calabrius’s Calculator? Only two Gold Pieces and
you could win fen!’ the man calls out. You imagine
that this challenge involves solving some kind of
puzzle generated by the machine. If you want to
accept Calabrius’s challenge (turn to 364). If not, you
can look at the Arrow of Providence (tum to 81), visit
“The Amazing Armarno’ (turn to g) or now leave the
Gambling Pits (turn to 207).

295

The new tunnel leads you through an archway and
into a great cavern. The path you are on curves around
the side of an abyss, descending slightly as it does so
Peering over the ledge you can just make out the jagged
stalagmites on the bone-littered cavern floor. Bravely,
you step onto the path. Instantly you feel it giving
way beneath your feet and start to run. Roll two dice,
four times. If on any of the rolls you get a double, turn
to 272. If you never roll a double, turn to 363.

296
The sturdy lighthouse door is locked, but using the
Skeleton Key, you enter the crumbling tower. Inside

296

you find what was obviously the Wreckers’ den.
Several empty crates have been arranged around a
barrel, which acts as a table, and bedrolls lie in one
corer, On the barrel are a candle, two dice, enough
Provisions for three meals, and a partially burnt letter.
Picking up the charred parchment, you read what you
can:

has been changed. It is no longer ‘Leviathan’, it is now
‘Crossbones’, Destroy this letter at once. Should you
encounter the snooper, do what ts necessary. We meet at the
allotted time at

The rest of the message no longer exists. This is a
valuable clue (regain 1 LUCK point). Taking whatever
else you want, you notice a trapdoor in another comer
of the room. Do you want to:

Open the trapdoor? Turn to 338
Return to the cliff to explore the cave? Turn to 391
Leave Mallan’s Point? Turn to 309

‘ TT _-
Meh eae ere eet At aer
Tey = eere oe

of

297-298

297
It takes two days for the Fortune to sail around the
perilous Crab Reefs. During this time you are able to
rest and recover your strength (restore up to 6
STAMINA points and 1 SKILL point). Eventually, with
the reefs behind you, the crew set a course for Bone
Island. Turn to 168.

298

‘Curse youl’ shouts a red-haired woman, leaping into
your way. You recognise the fiery woman as Mire! the
Red, Cinnabar’s second-in-command. It was she who
recovered the pirate-lord’s body and brought him
back to this world. ‘Thanks to you I now have this,’
she spits, revealing a hook in place of her left hand,
‘put I shall make you pay for your crime ten-fold!’

MIREL THE RED

Mirel the Red is a skilled swordswoman. Should you
manage to overcome her, turn to 214.

SKILL 11 STAMINA 10

299-300

299
You suddenly begin to feel feverish and start shaking.
The Mosquito must have been carrying an
accelerated, and potentially deadly, strain of malaria.
If you have a Poison Antidote, turn to 180. If not, turn
to 367.

300
Tossed about by the waves created by the thrashing
Behemoth, you hit your head on a broken spar and
everything goes black...

You come to on a sandy beach with the surf lapping
around you and the sun beating down on your
sodden body. About you has been washed up the
wreckage of the Fortune. You have no idea for how
long or how many leagues you have been carried by
the ocean currents, but you feel weary and hungry
(reduce your current STAMINA score by half). Fortu-
nately you shill have your backpack, with all your
possessions, and Provisions, intact. Unsteadily you
get to your feet. You are on the western side of an
island, and ahead of you is the edge of a jungle.
Beyond the trees, in the far distance, you can make out
some mountainous terrain and the same to the south.
Taking out the map you found on Cinnabar’s ship,
you compare it to the landscape. As far as you can tell,
they are the same — this must be Bone Island! Now you
are here, maybe you still have a chance to stop

P| Es

301-393

Cinnabar, but perhaps you should first find out more
about your surroundings. Will you:

Climb a tree and survey the area? Turn to 325
Search the wreckage that has been

washed ashore? Turn to 281
Look for other survivors? Tum to 66
Search for food? Turn to 242
Set off into the jungle? Turn to 125

301
Carved from a single piece of ivory, this charm
resembles the head of a noble lion. It originates from a
tribe of primitives who believe that it will protect
whoever possesses it from the dark powers of
voodoo. Return to 42.

302
You reveal the golden talisman to the unearthly spirit

and for a moment Quezkari appears to hesitate. Then, ©

with a snake-like hiss, it swoops down at you. You
have no choice now but to retaliate with your sword.
Turn to 177.

303
The Gambling Pits lie within the area of the city
known as the Claws — the poorest and most danger-
ous part of the port. The Pits themselves are housed in
a vast, stone building with a large, iron-studded oak
door. This entrance is flanked by two Troll guards. As
you walk past them, and through the door, they give
you a cursory glance and one says roughly, ‘Remem-

304-395
ber, no fighting.’ Inside, the Gambling Pits lie under a
thick cloud of pipe-weed smoke and are packed with
the unsavoury and roguish clientele you would
expect. Mingling with the crowds, you check out the
different games that are on offer. After a brief look
round, you discover three that interest you. Which
will you investigate further: the Arrow of Providence
{turn to 81}, Calabrius’s Calculator (turn to 294), ‘The
Amazing Armarno’ (turn to g), or will you leave the
Gambling Pits (turn to 207)?

ae.

The two battling monsters are blocking your way out
of the clearing. As they fight, you try to sneak past,
without attracting their attention. Test your Luck. If
you are Lucky, turn to 342. If you are Unlucky, turn to
386.

305

Your first assumption, that the place is deserted,
proves to be correct. Unhindered, you begin to search
the rooms more thoroughly. Rummaging through
chests and overturning boxes, you find a sword
(which will be useful if you have lost yours), enough
Provisions for five meals and a total of 10 Gold Pieces.
Test your Luck. If you are Lucky, turn to 199. If you are
Unlucky, turn to 252.

rJ E

Se)
BR
Ny

= a ~ * -
= as a . We ‘ “ :
. eX * “f ‘ oes 2 ‘
; 5, s* 6, + : S .
“e. *<4 ees) Yer
i —. * -

TAs <>
dese
. fv +

.
*)
:
.
._

306-307

306

Picking up the weapon, you see that it has a keenly
honed edge and curious lettering etched on one side
of its large, curved blade. Hearing a sound like
pebbles being tumbled on a beach, you look round
and stare wide-eyed in surprise at the sight before
you. The treasure pile itself has animated, taking on a
humanoid form, and is striding towards you. With
the bone sword in your hand you feel particularly
adept at hand-to-hand combat (increase your Attack
Strength by 1 point for this battle). Encouraged, you
prepare to take on the magically created Golem,
which watches you with eyes that are pearls.

TREASURE GOLEM SKILL 9 STAMINA 10
If you win, turn to 251.

307

You draw your sword and lunge at the twittering
creature. The Rainforest Sprite hisses at you and jabs
past your guard, with its sharp-pointed javelin, which
is also coated with venom from Poison Arrow Frogs.
(Lose 3 STAMINA points.) Before you can engage the
creature in combat it disappears back into the sur-
rounding greenery as suddenly as it first appeared,
jabbering away in its own unintelligible language. As
well as injuring you, the sprite has also laid a curse
upon you. (Lose 1 LUCK point.) Now turn to the para-
graph you noted down previously.

[} Ee

308-310

308
Agilely you throw yourself over the pit and land in a
forward roll on the other side. Up on your feet again,
you step under another macabrely carved archway
into a rough-hewn corridor, which runs both left and
right. Which way will you go? Left (turn to 149) or
right (turn to 329)?

309
The salt sea breeze behind you, you return to the Port
of Crabs itself, sneaking back into the city to continue
your hunt for the pirates. (Add 1 Hour to the Time
Elapsed.) Where will you go now?

To the docks? Turn to 67
To the taverns and inns? Tum to 150
Into the sewers? Turn to 355
To the cemetery? Turn to 83
To the Temple Quarter? Turn to 181

310

As you progress through the streets of the port, you
feel, with an increasing sense of unease, that you are
being followed. Could it be loyal followers of the
Black Skull who are on your tail? Rounding a corner,
you soon have your answer. Blocking your way is a
group of uniformed soldiers led by the Captain of the
City Guard. Behind you, several more armed men
emerge from darkened alleyways, so that you are
surrounded. The stern-faced Captain Snide steps
forward and announces, ‘I hereby place you under
arrest for disturbing the peace.’ But this is absurd!

SS —__S====“HHBHBass_—XmX—rrnl! SSS

311

What have you done to antagonise the City Guard?
Everything you are doing is to help the people of
Ruddlestone and the Port of Crabs. ‘Of course,’ Snide
adds, ‘a small payment of say ten Gold Pieces would
see you clear of any charges.’ It would seem that the
government of this city is corrupt to the core! If you
want to pay Snide this extortionate amount to go free,
and can afford it, turn to 163; if not, turn to 236.

311

Opening the door you enter a small room with a
straw-covered floor, and face the full fury of the
beasts imprisoned within. The result of some perverse
voodoo ritual, one is a large-fanged, bristle-backed
pig, the other a mutated two-headed cockerel. Not
distinguishing the difference between you and their
incarcerators, the enraged animals attack on sight.

SKILL STAMINA
HELLHOG 2 6
DEVILFOWL 6 5

If you kill the beasts, you hurry on along the corridor.
Turn to 151.

Es] Ea

312-314

312
You sneak after the men who are totally oblivious of
your presence. Test your Luck. If you are Lucky, turn to
247. If you are Unlucky, turn to 284.

313

As you look through the racks of scalpels and other
surgical instruments, you discover the partially
dissected body of a cat. However, as you reach over
the carcass to open a drawer, the cat’s head hisses and
bites your hand! Lose 2 STAMINA points. In a state of
shock you jump back from the table but the cat is
lifeless once more. Shaken, you decide to leave the
Doctor's quarters. Test your Luck. If you are Lucky,
turn to 233. If you are Unlucky, turn to 253.

314
As you search the chamber you find yourself
wondering who put all of this junk here and why.
Amongst the detritus you find a broken oil-lantern,
an old tarpaulin and a splintered piece of balustrade,
possibly from a ship’s forecastle. In other words,
nothing of any value. Now will you:

'

315
Open the flag-draped coffin? Turn to 36
Return to the other chamber and
choose the central arch? Turn to 392
Go back and choose the right-hand
archway? Turn to 25§
315

With the threat of a voodoo cult springing up in the
city, you decide you have a valid reason for going
right to the top and getting the help of the Overpriest
himself. The Overpriest holds court within the most
magnificent temple in the city — the Grand Temple of
Vinar. Entering the pillared marble hall, leading into
the temple, you join the queue of hopeful petitioners
who would seek an audience with his Excellency the
Primate of the God of Pride. At last it is you who
stands before the pulpit, next to the doors leading to
the Overpriest’s inner sanctum. A _pasty-looking
pniest stares down at you with barely suppressed
contempt. ‘I’m sorry but his Excellency is otherwise
engaged in the Ritual of the Sixth Hour at this time,’
says the underling. ‘He will not be able to see you
now. Come back again tomorrow.’ Two armed
priests, wearing ceremonial armour, cross their hal-
berds in front of you. You plead with the cleric but
nothing will change his mind — not even the mention
of voodoo. There is no way you will be granted access
to the Overpriest. As you are turning to leave, the
priest calls out in a patronising tone, “Wouldn't you
care to make an offering to Vinar?’ If you choose to
toss some Gold Pieces into the treasury at the foot of

EJ 3]

316-317

the pulpit, make a note of the number of coins and
turn to 14. If not, turn to 209.

316

The chest is not locked and raising the lid, you find it
full of fine, and no doubt stolen, clothes and
tapestries. Under the luxurious garments you find a
large, stoppered Bottle of Rum. (If you want to take
the rum, add it to your Adventure Sheet: drinking it
will restore up to 4 STAMINA points.) Now will you
examine the globe (turn to 349), the desk (turn to 134)
or the ship in a bottle (turn to 29)? Alternatively, you
could leave the Captain’s cabin (turn to 233).

317
You grab for the ropes holding the bridge together but
your reactions are not quick enough. You fall for
several seconds into the yawning gulf of the gorge
before plunging into the river below, Unfortunately
for you, boulders lie just under the surface of the
raging torrent. You crack your head on one and,
unconscious, you drown, claimed by the hungry
white water. Your adventure is over.

318-319

318
The pirate unsheathes a long knife with which to
defend himself. “You ain’t taken Old Crivens yet,’ he
spits, vehemently. ‘Come any closer and I'll slit yer
gizzard!’ Ignoring the old man’s threats, once again
you engage in battle.

CRIVENS

While you are fighting its master, the the villain’s pet
monkey does its best to distract you, climbing all over
you and biting you. As a result, for the duration of this
battle you must reduce your Attack Strength by 1
point and every Attack Round roll one dice: if the
number rolled is even you must lose 1 STAMINA point
as the monkey has just bitten you. If you are victorious
in this battle, turn to 377.

SKILL 8 STAMINA 7

319

At your killing stroke the vampire crumbles to dust
before your very eyes. There is now nothing to stop
you claiming the Scorpion Talisman. as your own: it
must be worth at least 10 Gold Pieces! (Add this item
to your Adventure Sheet.) Do you now want to search
Jolly Roger’s coffin (turn to 225) or would you rather
leave this macabre chamber (turn to 166)?

‘ . rh
, \ . '

320-324

320
Coming to the edge of a clearing, you see a tribesman
being attacked by the grotesque form of a Giant
Praying Manbs. The native is obviously no match for
the insect and is in dire need of help — but what have
you heard about the islanders? Will you run to the
tribesman’s defence (turn to 229) or go on your way
without getting involved (tum to the paragraph with
the number you noted down earlier)?

321
The anchor misses your chest by a hair’s breadth.
Looking into the fog, you can make out a shadowy
figure advancing towards you. Drawing your
weapon, you prepare for combat. Turn to 231.

322
You manage to ascend to the cliff-top without coming
to any further harm and consider your next course of
action. Will you now search the lighthouse, if you
haven’t already done so (turn to 296), or leave
Mallan's Point {turn to 309)?

323
Carefully, you open the second door. How long has it
taken you to get this far? If it has taken 9 Hours or
more, turn to 70. If it has taken 8 Hours or less, turn

to 333.

324
By destroying the Crystal of Esoteric Energies you
have weakened the High Priest’s own magical powers.

Eb]

325

Unable to cast his spells at you he pulls a golden
dagger with an obsidian blade from his robes with
which to attack you.

RAMATU

As you fight, the dagger lets out an ear-piercing
shriek, which you find very disconcerting (reduce
your Attack Strength by 1 point for the duration of
this battle). If you win against the High Priest of
Quezkari, turn to 7.

SKILL 10 STAMINA 9

325

Shinning up a tall tree growing at the edge of the
beach, you look out over a panorama of lush, steam-
ing jungle to the higher ground beyond. From your
vantage point you also make out a river running
southwest from the mountains to a swamp, and on
the eastern side of the island you can see a large
lagoon. Feeling a stinging sensation you look down to
see a parasitic growth covering the trunk of the tree
creeping onto your leg. You must defend yourself
against the carnivorous plant.

LEECH VINE

As you are fighting whilst clinging to the branches of
a free, you must reduce your Attack Strength by 1
point during this fight. Also, if you roll a double,
you fall out of the tree suffering one dice worth of
STAMINA damage, but in doing so you evade the
parasite. If you win, or fall out of the tree, return to 300
and choose another option.

SKILL 6 STAMINA 7

326-328

326

You give the door a mighty kick but all you succeed in
doing is rattling the bolts — and attracting the
attention of the Wreckers who have been shining their
light out to sea to lure ships onto the hull-ripping
rocks along this stretch of coast. Wielding knives and
cudgels, the Wreckers run at you. Fight them all at the
same time.

SKILL STAMINA
First WRECKER 7 7
Second WRECKER 6 7
Third WRECKER 8 7 |
If you win, turn to 369.
327

You can now either head southeast towards the
lagoon (turn to 10) or northeast into the mountains
(turn to 145).

328
The last of the pirates falls and with some relief you
sheathe your sword. It looks as if the pirates have
beaten Dregg within an inch of his life and he is failing
fast. You do your best to make the old man
comfortable and he opens his eyes. “Thanks, stranger,’
he gasps, ‘but I’m a goner now. They’re up to some-
thing you know.’ You ask him who he’s talking about.
‘Cinnabar’s crew, the Pirates of the Black Skull.’
Looking at the hands of Dregg’s assailants, you see
that each bears the tattoo of a grinning black skull
‘T’ve seen them meeting up again around the taverns

328

in the city; Silas Gallows, Keelhaul Jack, old Crivens,
even Malu the Witchdoctor. They're planning
something all right. Rumour says Mirel the Red found
Cinnabar’s body and that he’s not rightly dead. But
he’s not rightly alive either, see. It’s all that voodoo
and black magic they meddle in. Not right so it isn’t.’
Dregg coughs weakly: ‘He’s coming back. We'll all be
doomed! Stranger, beware the Black Skull. Blood-
bones is coming back!’ And then he is gone. Laying
the old man down, you ponder his last words and
what your next action should be. So Cinnabar is not
really dead. In that case you may still be revenged. But
what did Dregg mean when he said that Cinnabar is
not really alive either? Dregg has given you several
clues about your enemy and where you should start
your search for him. The old man mentioned that the
Pirates of the Black Skull were gathering again in the
Port of Crabs so they may have a hidden base some-
where in the city, but of course at present you have no
idea where it may be.

You now have several options open to you. You could
visit some of the taverns and inns yourself, in the
hope of finding out more (turn to 150), or you could
visit the notorious Gambling Pits, a possible source of
information and a way of increasing your Gold Pieces
(turn to 303). Alternatively, it might be a good idea to
equip yourself better at the markets before you set out
on your quest (turn to 365), or you could try to find
out more about the Black Skull and the cult of
Quezkari (turn to 315). Then again you may do well to
get the help of the authorities against Cinnabar (turn

329-330
to 103), although Governor Montargo has certainly
allowed the port to remain a safe haven for buccan-
eers and freebooters. Of course you could abandon
your search for further information and instead look
for the pirates’ hidden base (turn to 16).

329

The tunnel winds ever onwards under the mountain.
The monotony of the passageway is finally broken
when you come to an alcove in the left-hand wall. In
the alcove is a bowl of smouldering incense and
flower petals. The aromatic smoke billows out into the
corridor and as you smell it you begin to feel light-
headed. You will have to walk through the smoke to
proceed any further but, as you do so, will you
breathe in deeply (turn to 39) or hold your breath
(turn to 185)?

33°
Baring its blunt yellow teeth and screaming its rage,

the Great Ape prepares to defend its territory once
again.

GREAT APE

If you win, you continue on your way through the
forest. Turn to the paragraph with the number you
noted down previously.

EJ Ee)

SKILL 8 STAMINA 10

331-333

331
You clear a path to the crystal through the snakes and,
swinging your blade in a mighty arc, strike the
glowing rock. Test your Luck. If you are Lucky, turn to
104. If you are Unlucky, turn to 376.

332
As you trek through the jungle you come upon a fast-
flowing river. To continue on your way you can either
attempt to wade across the river (turn to 256), or try to
find another way to cross (turn to 347).

333
You find yourself at the back of a vast hall which
is packed with black-robed Devotees and scurvy-
looking pirates! Ducking down behind a stack of
crates you see that at the other end of the great
chamber is a huge, grotesque effigy. The thing has a
skeletal human body with an over-sized skull.
Around the grinning skull is a feathered-headdress
and in each hand is a blazing torch. Surely this statue
is a likeness of the cruel voodoo death-god, Quezkari!
Standing before the statue is a man you recognise. He
still wears the fine gold-braided, scarlet coat of a
nobleman and a large tricorn hat but his flesh is now a
sickly greenish-grey and pus oozes from great gashes
and holes in his skin. The pirate-lord’s fine black hair
pysetrs  ) Phan 0 and beard is now a straggly mess and his jaundice-

anes.

we @ Dis 9/2 yellow eyes stare wildly from shadowy sockets.
Cinnabar! Then the rumours were true: Mirel the
@&D: Red did find her captain’s body. With the help of

Quezkari’s Devotees, and their dark, forbidden

El EJ

333

practices, he has been brought back to life. The pirate-
lord addresses the throng. “Pirates of the Black Skull,
tonight we sail for Bone Island. There the ritual to
complete my resurrection will take place and then,
invulnerable, and with the power of Quezkari at our
disposal, we shall return to this vermin-hole and exact
our revenge. The Port of Crabs will be ours!’ A great
cheer of approval rises from the amassed followers of
Quezkari and your blood runs cold. Although you
have no love for the port, should Cinnabar take it
over, no lawful city anywhere along the coast will be
safe from buccaneers, and freebooters. He must be
stopped!

Suddenly you feel a strong hand on your shoulder
and you spin round to see two ugly rogues standing
behind you. You soon find yourself dragged before
the undead pirate-lord in front of Quezkari’s statue.
In seconds he has pronounced his sentence and as you
are taken away, he addresses his crew again: ‘We sail
with the tide at midnight!’ Following their captain,
the pirates swiftly file out of the shrine. Meanwhile,
you are taken to a pit at one end of the chamber and
tied by your wrists to metal rings in the wall at the
bottom of the pit. The pirates then abandon you to join
their fellows. It is then that you notice a small hole in
the bottom of the wall, through which water is
starting to enter the pit. The hole links the pit with the
sea. As the tide rises, so the pit fills with water, and
soon you will be totally submerged. The water is
already up to your waist. You pull on the rings but
they are securely embedded in the wall and the rope

334-335

shows no sign of breaking either. How are you going
to get out of this? If you have a Shark’s Teeth Bracelet,
turn to the paragraph, which is the same as the
number of teeth on the bracelet. If you do not, turn
to 132.

334
Choosing a location you haven't already visited,

where do you want to go now in your search for
information?

The taverns and inns of the city? Turn to 150
The notorious Gambling Pits? Turn to 303
The markets? Turn. to 365
The Temple Quarter? Turn to 315

To see Governor Montargo himself? Turn to 103

If you are done with looking for information, or you
have some idea where they might be hiding, you
could start looking for the pirates’ secret base (turn to

51).

335
Passing a rocky outcrop at the edge of a cliff, a strange,

reptilian humanoid suddenly leaps at you as if from
nowhere. Camouflaged against the boulder by its
colour-changing skin, the hunting Chameleonite
bounds towards you with its short spear raised.

CHAMELEONITE SKILL 7

If you win, your opponent’s body plunges from the
cliff edge onto the rocks below. Unhindered, you are
able to proceed along the cliff path. Tum to 283.

STAMINA 7

336-339

336
Under the Scarachna’s constant onslaught you
stumble backwards into its web. Held fast by the
sticky strands you can do nothing as the hybrid sinks
its fangs into your body, paralysing you and binding
you with silk, to be left until it is ready to devour you!

337
With you fighting on its side against the Great Ape,
the saurus soon overcomes its challenger. Turn to 278.

338

Sliding back the bolts you lift the trapdoor and see,
cowering in a shallow pit, a frightened, half-starved
cat. In fear and anger, it leaps out of the hole, biting
you and raking your flesh with its claws (lose 2
STAMINA points), before escaping into the night. The
Wreckers must have kept the cat prisoner as part of
some cmiel torment or wager, no doubt. Now, will
you descend the cliff to the cave entrance (turn to 391)
or leave the lighthouse and Mallan’s Point altogether
(turn to 309)?

339
The pan hits you squarely in the chest and scalding

hot water splashes all over you. Roll one dice and
add 1. This is the total number of STAMINA points
you tose. If you roll a 6 lose 1 SKILL point as well. A
meat cleaver gripped tightly in one podgy hand, the
cannibal cook charges at you, his rolls of fat wobbling
disgustingly.

340-342

BLADDERWRACK
THE COOK SKILL §

If you defeat the cook, turn to 285.

STAMINA 10

340

Before your air runs out, you slip the chain from your
ankles and swim back to the surface. (Regain 1 LUCK
point.) Treading water, you recover your breath and,
looking towards the jetty, you see that the Anchor
Man has gone, thinking you dead. Back on dry land,
you continue your search for secret entrances a while
longer but discover nothing, so you give up looking
here. Add 1 Hour and turn to 52.

341
The rest of the crew having repelled the other
attacking crabs, the Fortune sails free of the reef (turn
to 168).

or
Incredibly you manage to avoid falling foul of either
the ape or the lizard as they snap, slash and hurl
themselves at each other. Once on the other side of the
clearing, you continue on your way. Tum to the para-
graph with the number you noted down previously.

Zao

343-346

Having severed the Pitcher’s only means of attack you
are soon able to finish off the rest of the carnivorous
plant, hacking its acid-filled vase open with your
sword. (Regain 1 LUCK point.) Among the roots of the
Giant Pitcher-Plant you find the remains of its
previous meals. However, you also find a total of 7
Gold Pieces, a green jade monkey totem and a rusty
cutlass. Taking whichever of these items you wish,
you set off into the green depths of the jungle again, a
little more warily this time, Turn to the paragraph you
noted down previously.

344
The Behemoth sucks in a great quantity of seawater

along with the wreckage of the Fortune, its crew and
yourself. You end your adventure drowned inside the
stomach of a giant fish.

345
Quezkari is in reality a powerful evil spirit,
invulnerable to non-magical weapons. Although you
valiantly hold off the frenzied creature, ultimately
you weaken under its onslaught and join the other
souls of Quezkari’s victims in eternal damnation.

346
You pay your 2 Gold Pieces (deduct them from your
Adventure Sheet) and step up to the board. You get
three spins of the arrow and over those three goes you
must score a total of ten or more to win the jackpot. To
spin the arrow, roll one dice and add 6: This is the

Cy) fe

347-348

number of spaces round the board that the arrow
moves. The next spin starts from this space. You may
play the game as many times as you like, as long as
you have enough money, but if you win the jackpot,
you cannot play again. When you are finished here,
turn to 260.

347
It is some time before you find another way to cross

the river, via a fallen, vine-clad tree trunk, and your
body is beginning to feel the strain of trekking
through the jungle. (Lose 1 STAMINA point.) Now
retum to 192 and roll two dice again, remembering
that each encounter may not occur more than once.

Cross off one meal from your Provisions. The creature
snatches the food from you and gobbles it down. Then
it cheekily reaches out with its hand again! What will
you do now?

Give the creature an item from your

backpack? Turn to 122
Attack the creature? Turn to 307
Ignore it and go on your way? Turn to 384

349-351

349
It does not take you long to discover that the globe is

hollow and opens. Inside is a cloth bag containing 24
Gold Pieces and a diamond necklace. Taking the
treasure will you leave the cabin (turn to 233) or first
examine the chest (turn to 316), the desk (turn to 134)
or the ship in a bottle (turn to 29)?

359
Leaving the Octopus’s lair, you manage to ascend to
the cliff-top without coming to any further harm and
consider your next course of action. Will you now
search the lighthouse, if you haven’t already done so
(turn to 296), or leave Mallan’s Point (turn to 309)?

351
Scouring the various stalls, you soon find a number of
items that might be of use to you on your quest. You
may buy any of the things on the list, as long as you
have enough money (deducting the correct number of
Gold Pieces from your Adventure Sheet).

Rope 1 Gold Piece

Extra Provisions 1 Gold Piece for each meal
Cutlass 8 Gold Pieces

Throwing Dagger 3 Gold Pieces

Chainmail Coat 6 Gold Pieces

Flask of Grog 3 Gold Pieces

Poison Antidote 4 Gold Pieces

Gas-Globes 6 Gold Pieces

The Cutlass does not carry any bonuses: it is just
another weapon. You may use the Throwing Dagger

EY} E

352

against an opponent before a combat: Test your Skill,
and. if you are successful you may deduct 2 points
from your opponent's STAMINA score. If you win the
combat you can reclaim the dagger. The Chainmail
Coat reduces any opponent's Attack Strength by 1
point, but while you are wearing it, you must add 1 to
the dice-roll every time you have to Test your Skill. The
Grog is very invigorating and will restore up to 4
STAMINA points; also for the duration of the next
combat you are involved in after drinking the Grog,
you may add 1 point to your Attack Strength — but
only for that one battle. The Poison Antidote is
effective against toxins and venoms of many kinds
and there is enough for three uses. There are three
Gas-Globes, which look like small giass spheres filled
with a swirling mist. You may use a Gas-Globe before
going into battle: the globe simply has to be smashed
on the ground in front of an enemy who will then be
enveloped by a sense-numbing cloud which has the
effect of reducing their Attack Strength by 2 points.
However, the Gas-Globes will not affect Undead,
Demons or magical creatures. When you have
finished here, do you want to look around the Bazaar
for more exotic items (turn to 42) or leave the markets
(turn to 111)?

352
You collapse on the sandy shore, utterly crestfallen.
50 near and yet so... What was that sound? It was like
the blowing of the wind in a ship’s sails, but there is
not even so much as a breeze. You look up and there,
gliding into the lagoon, is a battered, storm-wracked

352

vessel — the Sea Maiden. As soon as you are within
earshot, the ghosily Captain Velyarde calls to you
from the deck: ‘Do not worry my friend. Cinnabar has
not thwarted us yet. Come, join us.’

In no time at all you are on board: the Sea Maiden sets
off at once. The ghost ship travels at an incredible rate
of knots, flying over the waves as it chases after the
Virago. During the exhilarating voyage, Velyarde
explains his crew’s continued presence on the Earthly
Plane: ‘It was Cinnabar’s pirates who slaughtered my
crew and I, damning us for all eternity. Now there is a
chance to be revenged and restore the cosmic order.’
And then in mid-ocean the pirates’ galleon comes into
view. As you watch, a ball of burning pitch shoots
from the Virago at the Sea Maiden, and it is dead on
target. Test your Luck. If you are Lucky, turn to 232; if
you are Unlucky, turn to 128.

353-355

353

Opening the door, you step into a freezing cabin.
Icicles hang from the beams and your breath turns to
mist in the cold air. Then the room’s occupant attacks,
An ill-defined, misty human form springs at you from
the cabin and tries to grab you with its frozen hands.
You draw your sword and defend yourself as the
wraith-like creature moans, ‘Cooold! So cooold!’

CHILLER SKILL 8

While you fight the Chiller you must reduce your
Attack Strength by 1 point because of the icy cold.
Also, for every further 2 rounds the battle lasts you
must reduce your Attack Strength by a further point.
If you repel the ghost, turn to 389.

STAMINA 7

354
Watching your footing, you inch into the shadows.

The water inside the cave suddenly begins to chum
and two slimy, sucker-lined tentacles burst from the
sea and reach for you. Quickly drawing your sword,
you prepare to defend yourself.

TENTACLES SKILL 7

If the Tentacles score two hits in succession, turn at
once to 161. If you defeat the tentacles without them
scoring two successful hits in a row, turn to 280.

STAMINA 4

355
The port’s sewers empty into the open sea through

an outlet in the harbour wall. Your lantern lit, you
enter the sewer. Following one foul-smelling channel

356

after another, you wander through the labyrinthine
sewers, finding no sign of any hidden base or nefari-
ous goings-on. (Add 1 Hour to your total.) Trudging
through the cold and damp you slowly become
aware of a sloshing sound behind you. Pausing, you
turn to face whatever is following you. From out of
the shadows emerges an ugly, stooped humanoid
creature, with distended arms and carrying a crude
club. Seeing you, the Troll becomes excited. ‘A Yoo-
man! Just what Gunk needs to fill his belly!’ Drooling
saliva over his tusks, Gunk the Sewer Troll raises his
club, ready to smash your skull open.

GUNK SKILL 8 STAMINA 9

While you are fighting Gunk, you must reduce your
Attack Strength by 1 point because of the effect of the
nauseating stench of the sewers. If you win, tum to 3.

356
The undead pirate snatches the skeleton artefact from

you and snaps it in half before you can stop it. Cross
the item off your Adventure Sheet and turn to 147.

357-359

357
The pirates are not expecting this reaction from you,

and you are able to wound one of the rogues before
they know what is going on. Fight them both at the
same time.

SKILL STAMINA
First PIRATE 6 5
second PIRATE 6 q

If you win, the Half-Ogre steps forward to fight you.
Will you face your opponent (turn to 187) or try to
escape (turn to 6)?

358
Saying your own name, you try to prompt a response
from the primitive. ‘Balinac wants food,’ grunts the
creature. Will you offer Balinac something (turn to
183), prepare to attack the creature (turn to 95) or flee
into the jungle (turn to 125)?

359
Treading carefully, and keeping an eye open for any

more overgrown mosquitoes, you are startled when
three figures rise out of the clinging mire in front of
you. They may once have been human but the
creatures before you now are decomposing travesties,
remnants of mud-sodden jerkins and breeches still
hanging from their skeletal frames and each clutches
a cutlass in its atrophying hands. You are facing only
a few of the many who have lost their way and their
lives in the swamp. Moaning balefully, the Zombie
Pirates lurch at you. Fight them individually.

Ea] Ey

360-362

SKILL STAMINA
First ZOMBIE PIRATE 6 6
Second ZOMBIE PIRATE 5 7
Third ZOMBIE PIRATE - 6

If you defeat the shambling Undead, their bodies sink
back into the swamp, leaving you to freely enter the
jungle. Make a note of the number 397 and turn to 192.

360

‘I won’t say any more unless you give old Scrimshaw
a present,’ the man says, giggling. He will accept any
special items or artefacts you may have, including
Grog or Rum, but not Provisions or Gold Pieces. lf you
agree to give Scrimshaw a present, cross it off your
Adventure Sheet and turn to 41. If not, or you are
unable to, turn to 130.

361

What will you choose? If you want to use a Blue Gem,
turn to the paragraph which has the same number as
there are sides to the jewel. If not, will you use a
Skeleton Artefact (turn to 136), a Witchdoctor’s Wand
(turn to 106), a Monkey Totem (turn to 286) or a
Scorpion Talisman (302)? If you cannot or do not want
to use any of the above you will have to use your
weapon (turn to 177).

362
The few items of furniture that remain inside this
cabin are rimmed with frost and ice crystals cover
the inside of a small, sealed porthole. As you search

363-364
the room you hear the voice of the wraith-ghost again.
‘Leeeeave this plaace!’ it screams. You shiver in fear,
feeling ice water trickle down your spine and the
blood curdle in your veins. (Lose 1 LUCK point and 1
SKILL point.) In terror you flee the haunted cabin.
Turn to 4.

363

Resounding booms echo around the cavern as the
ledge falls away behind you onto the rocks below.
And then around a bend you see another archway in
the cave wall. With one final spurt of energy you
throw yourself through it, into the passageway
beyond. Having recovered your breath you choose
whether to go right (turn to 57) or left (turn to 91).

364

‘Ahh, a contestant!’ Calabrius exclaims. ‘Come for-
ward, don’t be shy. Now where’s your money?’ You
hand the man your 2 Gold Pieces (deduct these from
your Adventure Sheet). Calabrius moves to the side of
the huge calculating device and pulls a lever. There is
a lot of noisy clanking and the number drums spin
round at great speed. Gradually, one by one, they
come to a stop behind their windows, the last one
revealing itself to be blank so that the panel looks
like this:

. 9 25 57 -

‘The Calculator has devised its cunning conundrum.
This machine can baffle even the greatest minds in
Ruddlestone. Can you work out what the next number

EC]

365-366

in the sequence should be?’ Well, can you? If so, turn
to the paragraph with the same number as the answer.
If you cannot solve the puzzle or the paragraph you
turn to makes no sense, meaning you have got the
answer wrong, you will have to leave Calabrius’s
Calculator and look at the Arrow of Providence (tum
to 81), visit ‘The Amazing Armarno’ (turn to g) or
leave the Gambling Pits (turn to 207).

365

The port’s sprawling markets lie within the Merchant
Quarter, which runs from Farthing Lane to Money-
lender's Street. You have two possible options now;
either you can Jook for practical equipment around
the markets (tur to 351) or you can visit the Port of
Crabs’ lively Bazaar with its more exotic — and
expensive ~ wares (turn to 42).

366
The Witchdoctor’s room is full of totems and votive
offerings. Amongst his possessions are a Crocodile
Amulet, a small whalebone Skeleton Artefact and his
wand, which now seems to have lost its power. You
may take any of these objects if you want before
leaving Malu’s den. When you are finished here will

you:

Open the far door? Turn to 191
Open the door to the right? Turn to 141
Open the door marked ‘Captain?’ Turn to 97

Descend the staircase? Tum to 211

367-369

367
Your symptoms rapidly become worse as you quickly
succumb to the malaria. An agonizing death awaits,
but fortunately for you it will not be long in coming.
Your adventure is tragically over.

368
The tribesman, who is very eloquent, thanks you
profusely for saving his life and gives you a Nauk
Fruit (equivalent to 1 meal) before hurrying off into
the jungle. (Record the word ‘Sitnam’ on your
Adventure Sheet and turn to the paragraph with the
number you noted down.)

369

The light is snuffed out and the vessel the Wreckers
were luring onto the rocks turns away just in time,
heading back out towards the open sea. (Record the
word ‘Enutrof’ on your Adventure Sheet.) Searching
the Wreckers’ bodies you find a total of 5 Gold Pieces
and a Skeleton Key. As you are considering what to
do next, from your vantage point high on the
promontory you spot a sizeable cave entrance on the
shoreline where the cliff-base meets the sea. Could
this be the location of the pirates’ hideout? Will you:

Climb down the cliff to the cave? Turn to 391
Return to the ighthouse and

investigate it further? Turn to 296
Leave Mallan’s Point? Turn to 309

jaar
37°
Test your Luck. If you are Lucky, turn to 341. If you are
Unlucky, turn to 60.

374

Hacking through the jungle with machetes, three
pirates emerge from the undergrowth into your path.
The first has a neatly trimmed beard and wears a
bandana. The second has an ugly scar running from
the top of his head down his chest and the last looks
like a man-sized monkey! ‘It’s the snooper!’ exclaims
Keelhaul Jack, surprised at seeing you still alive.
‘Attack!’ Between the trees you are able to fight
Cimnabar’s pirates one at a time.

SKILL STAMINA
JANGO 7 6
KEELHAUL JACK 8 7
SIMA THE MONKEY MAN 7 7

If you win, a search of the pirates’ bodies reveals 8
Gold Pieces and a small bottle of rum (drinking this
will restore up to 2 STAMINA points). You may also
take one of their swords if you have lost yours, then
turn to the paragraph with the number you noted
down previously.

372
Studying the carving you deduce that the inscription
around it reveals how to open the door. If you can
work out the number hidden in the puzzle, turn to the
paragraph with that number. If you are unable to you

CJ GI

373-376

have no choice but to return to the junction and go the
other way (turn to 329).

373
The smugglers dead, you look inside the chest. It is

full of counterfeit coins and the villains themselves
only possess 4 Gold Pieces. Although you search as
well as you can in the mist and darkness, you are
unable to discover where the smugglers were headed.
There is nothing more you can do here so you leave
the cemetery. Add 1 Hour and turn to 52.

374
There is only one dose of this potion but, when drunk,

it has the effect of restoring your STAMINA score to its
Initial level and adding 2 to your Attack Strength for
the next battle you have to fight. Return to 42.

375
You dodge the bolt and prepare to attack (tum to 182).

376
The crystal explodes in a blaze of light, blasting
shards of rock around the chamber, some of which hit
you (roll one dice, add 2 and deduct that number of
STAMINA points). If you are still alive, you leave the
crystal room. Record the word ‘Dehsams’ on your
Adventure Sheet and tur to 329.

377

377
As Crivens’ monkey scampers away, you make a

quick search of the bodies of your assailants, each of
which has the mark of the Black Skull on their right
hand. The Devotees carry no possessions but the old
Pirate is a different case entirely. About his person
Crivens has a purse containing 6 Gold Pieces and a
very unusual coin indeed. Almost twice the size of a
Gold Piece, its face bears the image of a crab - it is a
doubloon. Turning it over, you are surprised to
discover that the other side has also been stamped
with the picture of a crab. Doubloons have not been
minted in the Port of Crabs for two centuries and as a
consequence are rare and of great value. The coin you
hold in your hand however is obviously a counterfeit
as it has two heads. From this you can only surmise
that someone has been trying to mint their own
doubloons, no doubt as a way to raise some money.
(Add the Crab Doubloon to your Adventure Sheet.)
You may also take Crivens’ Throwing Dagger if you
wish. If you do, you can use it against an opponent
before having to fight them: Test your Skill and, if you
are successful, you may reduce their STAMINA score
by 2 points. You may reclaim the dagger after the
fight. Dregg told you that Crivens was one of
Cinnabar’s old crew so they obviously know that you
are on to them. You will have to be careful not to
attract their attentions further. Hurriedly, if
somewhat cautiously, you set off again, away from
the markets. If you have the word ‘Dnalsi’ written on
your Adventure Sheet, turn to 17. If you do not, turn

to 334.

Cc] E

378-380

378

Although the ropes and planks of the bridge creak
and groan at your passing, the whole thing holds and
you enter the cliff-face through the skull’s open
mouth. You find yourself in a high-ceilinged, torch-lit
tunnel, which cuts its way deep into the mountain. It
is not long before the tunnel opens out into a large,
square chamber. Hideous painted carvings adorn the
walls here but there is nothing else of interest in the
room. However, three archways in the opposite wall
lead onwards into the temple. Will you proceed
through the archway to the left (turn to 216), through
the one in the centre (turn to 392) or by passing under
the archway to the right (turn to 255)?

379
Incredibly you manage to kill the creature in its own

watery domain. (Regain 1 LUCK point.) You heave
yourself out of the water and take a few minutes to
recover your breath. Then, confident that it will
now be safe, you explore the cave. However, to your
disappointment, no other tunnels lead from it. The
pirates’ hideout obviously isn't here. Turn to 350.

380
The spider-scorpion strikes you with its sting,
injecting its virulent poison directly into your blood-
stream. (Lose 6 STAMINA points rather than the usual
2.) If you are still alive, reeling from the effects of the
toxin, you continue your battle against the Scarachna.
Return to 144.

381-382

381

The castaway is happy to have someone to talk to
having been alone on the island for so many years.
Scrimshaw tells you that he was one of the crew of the
notorious Blackscar and was marooned by him once
the legendary pirate had hidden his treasure. He also
says that the island is home to a warrior-tribe who live
in fear of an evil priest. If you want to now ask him
more about Blackscar’s treasure, turn to 360, other-
wise you can leave the old man and explore the hills
alone (turn to 65).

382
Somewhat uncertainly, you hand over the 4 Gold
Pieces (deduct them from your Adventure Sheet). ‘Sit
down and rest your weary feet,’ says Madame Galbo
in a soothing voice, and you comply willingly. “You
seek the followers of Quezkari for you fear they will
return their pirate-lord to life?’ You nod to confirm
the wisewoman’s thoughts. ‘Your fears are well
founded, for [have spoken with the spirits. Even now,
those loyal to the Black Skull and Cinnabar make
blood offerings to the death-god to restore the Pillager
so that he may continue his reign of terror on the
twelve seas of Titan. A champion, such as you, must
stop them, for theirs is the way of voodoo. Voodoo
magic is the magic of wild, untamed places. It is the
magic of the jungle, primal and savage. It is primitive,
bestial and dark. If Cinnabar returns he will be
unstoppable and will enslave all of this city to his
bloodthirsty master. I can help you in one of three
ways for you cannot delay here — time is short. Do you

CJ Ee

Le zh

~

er

eee

hoa

ee

~~

a ‘- a

. " ty
—s,
Y" pe
Pe :
ott

- 4 ‘

*

)
x)

383-385
want me to look into your future to help you (turn to
11), heal your wounds (turn to 179) or prepare you a

compound that may be of use in your trial (turn to
261)?’

383
The tendril manages to wrap itself around you and,
before you can do anything to free yourself, it drags
you into the vase of the Pitcher Plant. The vase is filled
with a potent natural acid, which is how the plant
digests its food — you have just become its next meal.
Your adventure comes to an agonising end here.

384

The creature does not appreciate being ignored and
jabbers away at you in its own unintelligible
language, but does not attack, so you set off through
the jungle once more. However, as you leave, and
unknown to you, the spiteful Rainforest Sprite steals
one item and one meal’s worth of your Provisions
from your backpack as you depart. Cross these things
off your Adventure Sheet and then tum to the para-
graph you noted down previously.

385
Chopping your way onwards through the sweltering
jungle, you become lulled into a false sense of
security. Slowly you are alerted to the presence of
something moving in the trees above you. You freeze
and look up into the canopy. There, clinging to the
branches by its eight legs, is a monstrous, red spider
with a scorpion’s tail and sting arched over its back.

E] EJ

386-388

The spider-scorpion hybrid instantly shoots a sticky
silk-like substance from its mouth directly at you. Test
your Skill. If you are successful, turn to 144. If you fail,
turn to 84.

386
As you try to creep past, the lizard’s lashing tail
strikes you and the ape accidentally lands a crushing
blow against your shoulder. Lose 4 STAMINA points.
Once on the other side of the clearing, you continue on
your way. Turn to the paragraph with the number
you noted down previously.

387

Some of the wreckage from Conyn’s ship is still half-
submerged in the sea. As you scour the flotsam and
jetsam you reach under the broken hull of a jolly boat
and are bitten by an eel hiding there (lose 2 STAMINA
points). The rest of your search proves fruitless, so
you give up on this course of action. Return to 300 and
choose an option you have not picked already.

388

On touching the pearl you feel a warm tingling
sensation in your arm. Holding the pearl in both
hands your whole body is filled with revitalizing
energy. Restore both you STAMINA and SKILL scores
to their Initial levels and regain 2 Luck points. Blessed
by the life-giving pearl which Ramatu stole from the
Usai tribe, you can now either take the fetish as well
(turn to 210) or leave the temple (turn to 188).

389-392
389
With a fading moan the blood-freezing spirit
dissolves into the chilling mist that fills the cabin. Do
you want to depart the cabin yourself (tum to 4), or do
you want to explore the room first (turn to 362)?

390

The bounty hunter finally agrees to approach the
vessel but will have nothing to do with the ship
himself. As the Fortune nears the Sea Maiden you see
that its sails are rotten and the planks it is constructed
from are covered with algae. Only the ghost ship’s
figurehead of a beautiful young woman appears
untarnished. You can see no one on deck, the only
sound being the moan of the wind in the ship’s sails
and the creaking of the mast. Do you want to
personally board the Sea Maiden to explore it further
(turn to 238) or leave the vessel on its eternal voyage
(turn to 153)?

391
In the darkness, and with the rocks constantly
splashed by sea-spray, your descent is somewhat
dangerous. Test your Skill three times. If you fail any

of the rolls, turn to 114. If you pass all of the rolls, turn
to 219.

392
The tunnel you find yourself in has been cut from the
bedrock of the mountain itself. Creeping through the
gloom you hear a skittering sound ahead of you. Then
three stunted figures appear to coalesce from out of

ES

393

the darkness. At first you think they are pygmies but
then you realise that there is something horribly
wrong. The pallid grey flesh, the sightless white eyes,
the slack dead expressions - these pygmies are
already dead and have been brought back to life by
some unholy power. And you are going to have to
fight them.

SKILL STAMINA
First ZOMBIE PYGMY 6 5
Second ZOMBIE PYGMY 5 5
Third ZOMBIE PYGMY 6 4

The first and second pygmies attack you at the same
time with their stabbing javelins whilst the third
attempts to hit you with poison darts from its deadly
blowpipe. Every other Attack Round, roll for the third
pygmy’s Attack Strength as well. If it is greater than
yours it manages to hit you with one of its darts,
causing you to lose an additional 2 points of
STAMINA. Once you have defeated the first and
second Zombie Pygmy you may then fight the third
as normal. If you survive this encounter, turn to 20.

393
‘Ah yes,’ grins the guru, accepting your money
happily (cross off the 2 Gold Pieces from your
Adventure Sheet), ‘you are the cusse-lifter, the ridder of
evil, the seeker of truth, the nghter of wrongs.’ You
have a feeling this is what the wise man tells all his
punters. ‘Beware, vengeance-seeker, for a watery
grave awaits you between the Crab’s claws and the
under-tunnels hold nothing but death. Search out the

394-395

beacon and the woman of the taboo path.’ Mystified,
you ponder what to do next. Will you consult the
blind seer (turn to 167) or the mute fortune-teller (turn
to 98) for another 2 Gold Pieces, or would you rather
now leave the Temple Quarter (add 1 Hour and turn
to 334)?

394
Trapping the Jaguar in a headlock you beat the cat
into submission. Victorious, you are pulled from the
pit and have your weapon returned. ‘Turn to 142.

‘A

395

At your final blow, your ghostly adversary reels and
then rises up again, apparently unharmed and
smiling, as are the other undead! “Thank you, brave
warrior,’ says the captain in more human tones.
‘Years ago we were damned to sail the twilight way
by a foul-begotten pirate-lord. By besting me in battle,
you have released us from our hellish curse. We shall
be eternally grateful but now you must leave our ship,
and quickly.’ Not waiting for an explanation you rush
back to the deck and disembark the Sea Maiden. (Add
the word ‘Nediam’ to your Adventure Sheet and regain
1 LUCK point for lifting the curse.) Turn to 153.

E]

396-398

396
Turning a corner you feel a sharp pinprick in the back
of your neck. Putting your hand to the place, you pull
a tiny dart from your skin. lts tip is stained with a dark
liquid ~ pois... Turn to 158.

397
Dusk is falling as you come to the outskirts of a group

of mud huts in a large clearing in the jungle. You can
see tribespeople going about their business within the
village but how do you think they'd react to a stranger
not native to Bone Island? Will you enter the village
(turn to 274) or give it a wide berth and camp for the
night in the jungle (turn to 164)?

398
Could it be? Hastily you pull the tiny grimacing idol
from your backpack and know that you are correct in
your assumptions by Cinnabar’s reaction: his heart is
actually enclosed inside the fetish of the voodoo
death-god! “What are you doing with that?’ the pirate-
lord gasps in horror. ‘Look, I'll give you anything you
desire; gold, jewels, why even the Port of Crabs if you
so wish. Only spare me!’ Cinnabar has shown himself
to be the pitiful coward he really is. The orly thing he
owes you for the slaughter of your family is his death!
Hurling the fetish onto the deck you smash it open
and pierce Cinnabar’s heart with the tip of your
sword. With a spine-chilling wail, Cinnabar collapses
in front of you. Immediately his flesh starts to decay,
dissolving into a grey-green sludge as it drops from
his bones, which in turn crumble to dust. Soon all that

Ca) Ed

399-400

is left of the foul pirate-lord are his clothes. The
butcher known as Bloodbones is truly dead at last
(regain 1 LUCK point).

Suddenly a cloud of thick, black smoke starts to pour
from the shattered pieces of the broken fetish. The
vapour coalesces and then solidifies before you inte a
terrifying form: the true source of Cinnabar’s power is
manifesting itself. Standing where the pirate fell is a
grotesque creature with a withered, skeletal human
body and a grossly over-large, skull-like head,
adorned with a feathered headdress. At the death of
his servant, Quezkari himself has come to seek your
demise! Will you try to use something against the
horror (turn to 361) or attack it with your weapon
(turn to 177)?

399
The Darkwood Armband is carved to look like a

snake with its tail in its mouth. Putting it on does not
make you feel any different - at least not at the
moment. Now return to 42.

goo

At your killing blow, Quezkari’s rapidly decom-
posing body is engulfed in flames. Looking about
you, you see that, having lost their leader and wit-
nessed the defeat of their ‘god’, the pirates are
running around in disarray and have almost been
suppressed by the undead crew of the Sea Maiden.
Your attention is drawn back to Quezkari’s corpse by
the raging fire that has now spread to the deck and

400

mast of the Virago. ‘Hurry, my friend" call
‘We are done here.’ a eel ie

Fleemg the pirate vessel with the rest of Velyarde’s
crew, once you are back on board the ghost ship you
watch from a safe distance as the galleon is consumed
by flames and then firally sinks beneath the waves.
Thanks to you, the cruel pirate-lord Cinnabar has
been destroyed, along with his evil master Quezkari

and the Pirates of the Black Skull are no more. Your
homeland is safe. |

As the sun sinks towards the horizon, tingeing the
Western Ocean a brilliant orange, you gaze out across
the watery expanse deep in thought, You are stirred
from your reverie by Captain Velyarde as he joins you
at the prow, ‘Before we must depart this world for
— may I pay you one last service for freeing us
St a torment, by taking you to some

“Yes,’ you say in reply, ‘Clam Beach. Take me home.’

= =—_ uel
——. —_

MONSTER ENCOUNTER BOXES MONSTER ENCOUNTER BOXES

|

—

Stamina = Stamina = Soewuina = Stamina = Stamina =

|

| =
5 i (sea = Still = ~ | bi = om

Stamina = Saminad = panes - | ) Searreinae = ee. - Seaaus = }

: |
t
! | : !
Ms 4 ; | tN

} ' '

j ' ‘ '

This edition published in the UK im 2006 by Wizard Books,
an imprint of Icon Books Lid_, The Old Dairy,
Brook Road, Thriplow, Cambridge 5G8 7RG
www. iconbooks.co.uk/ wizard

Sold in the UK, Europe, South Africa and Asia by TBS Ltd.,
TBS Distribution Centre, Colchester Road,
Frating Green, Colchester CO7 7DW

This edition published in Australia in 2006 by
Allen & Unwin Pty. Ltd., PO Box 8500,
83 Alexander Street, Crows Nest, NSW 2065

Distributed in Canada by Penguin Books Canada,
90 Eglinton Avenue East, Suite 700,
Toronto, Ontario M4P 2¥3

ISBN 10: 1 84046 765 7
ISBN 13: 978 1840467 65 9

Text copyright © 2006 Steve Jackson and Ian Livingstone
Illustrations copyright © 2006 Tony Hough
Map copyright © 2006 Jonathan Green

Fighting Fantasy is a trademark owned by
Steve Jackson and Ian Livingstone, all rights reserved.

No part of this book may be reproduced in any form,
or by any means, without prior permission in writing
from the publisher

Printed and bound in the UK by
Cox & Wyman Ltd., Reading

For Steve and Ian, who started it all.
For Dave Holt, who kept the faith.
And for everyone else who ever wondered...
CONTENTS

INTRODUCTION
7

ADVENTURE SHEET
14

BACKGROUND
16

BLOODBONES
23

INTRODUCTION

Before embarking on your adventure, you must first
determine your own strengths and weaknesses. You
use dice to determine your initial scores. On pages 14-
15 there is an Adventure Sheet, which you may use to
record the details of your adventure. On it you will
find boxes for recording the scores of your attributes.
You are advised either to record your scores on the
Adventure Sheet in pencil or to make photocopies of
the sheet for use in future adventures.

Skill, Stamina and Luck

Roll one dice. Add 6 to the number rolled and enter
this total in the SKILL box on the Adventure Sheet.

Roll two dice. Add 12 to the number rolled and enter
this total in the STAMINA box.

Roll one dice. Add 6 to the number and enter this total
in the LUCK box.

For reasons that will be explained below, all your
scores will change constantly during the adventure.
You must keep an accurate record of these scores, and
for this reason you are advised to write small in the
boxes or to keep an eraser handy. But never rub out
your Initial scores. Although you may be awarded
additional SKILL, STAMINA and LUCK points, their
totals may never exceed their Initial scores, except on
those very rare occasions when the text specifically
tells you so.

Your SKILL reflects your expertise in combat, your
dexterity and agility. Your STAMINA score reflects

7

how healthy and physically fit you are. Your LUCK
score indicates how lucky you are.

Battles

During your adventure you will often encounter
hostile creatures which will attack you, and you
yourself may choose to draw your sword against an
enemy you chance across. In some such situations you
may be given special options allowing you to deal
with the encounter in an unusual manner, but in most
rases you will have to resolve battles as described
el1ow.

Enter your opponent's SKILL and STAMINA scores in
the first vacant Monster Encounter Box found at the
back of the book. You should also make a note of any
special abilities or instructions, which are unique to
that particular opponent. Then follow this sequence:
1. Roll both dice for your opponent. Add its SKILL
score to the total rolled, to find its Attack Strength.

2. Roll both dice for yourself, then add your current
SKILL score to find your Attack Strength.

3. If your Attack Strength is higher than your oOppo-
nent’s, you have wounded it proceed to step 4. If
your opponent's Attack Strength is higher than
yours, it has wounded you: proceed to step 5. If
both Attack Strength totals are the same, you have
avoided or parried each other's blows: start a new
Attack Round from step 1 above.

4. You have wounded your opponent, so subtract 2
points from its STAMINA score. You may use LUCK
here to do additional damage (see below),

5. Your opponent has wounded you, so subtract 2
points from your STAMINA score. You May use
LUCK to reduce the loss of STAMINA (see below).

6. Begin the next Attack Round, starting again at step
1. This sequence continues until the STAMINA score
of either you or your opponent reaches zero, which
means death. If your opponent dies, you are free to
continue with your adventure. If you die, your
adventure ends and you must start all over again
by creating a new character.

Fighting More Than One Opponent

In some situations you may. find yourself facing more
than one person or creature in combat. Sometimes
you will treat them as a single opponent; sometimes
you will be able to fight each in tum; and at other
times you will have to fight them all at the same time!
If they are treated as a single opponent, the combat is
resolved normally. When you are instructed to fight
your opponents one at a time, the combat is again
resolved normally — except that once you defeat an
enemy, the next steps forward to fight you! When you
find yourself er atiack from more than one
opponent at the same time, each adversary will make
a separate attack on you in the course of each Attack
Round, but you can choose which one to fight. Attack
your chosen target as in a normal battle. Against any
additional opponents you throw for your Attack
Strength in the normal way; if your Attack Strength is
greater than your opponent's, in this instance you will
not inflict any damage; you can regard it as if you
have parried an incoming blow. If your Attack

9
Strength is lower than your adversary’s, however,
you will be wounded in the normal way. Of course,
you will have to settle the outcome against each
additional adversary separately.

Luck

At various times during your adventure, either in
battles or when you come across other situations in
which you could be either Lucky or Unlucky (details
of these are given in the relevant paragraphs), you
May use LUCK to make the outcome more favourable
to you. But beware! Using LUCK is a risky business
and, if you are Unlucky, the results could be disastrous.

The procedure for Testing your Luck works as follows:
roll two dice. If the number rolled is equal to or less
than your current LUCK score, you have been Lucky
and the outcome will be in your favour. If the number
rolled is higher than your current LUCK score, you
have been Unlucky and will be penalized.

Each time you Test your Luck, you musst subtract 1
point from your current LUCK score, Thus you will
soon realize that, the more you rely on your LUCK, the
more risky this procedure will become.

Using Luck in Batiles

In certain paragraphs you will be told to Test your
Luck, and you will then find out the consequences of
being Lucky or Unlucky. However, in battles, you
always have the option of using your LUCK, either to
inflict more serious damage on an opponent you have
just wounded, or to minimize the effects of a wound
you have just received.

10

If you have just wounded an opponent, you may Test
your Luck as described above. If you are Lucky you
have inflicted a severe wound; deduct an extra 2
points from your opponent's STAMINA score. If you
are Unlucky, however, your blow only scratches
your opponent; and you deduct only 1 point from
your onent’s STAMINA (Le., instead of scoring the
normal 2 paints of damage, you now score only 1).

Whenever you yourself are wounded in combat, you
may Test your Luck to try to minimize the wound, If
you are Lucky, your opponent's blow only grazes
you; deduct only 1 point from your STAMINA. If you
are Unlucky, your wound is a serious one and you
must deduct 1 extra STAMINA point (Le., deduct a
total of 3 points from your own STAMINA).

Remember: you must subtract 1 point from your
LUCK score each time you Test your Luck.

More About Your Attributes

Skill

Your sKILt score will not change much during the
course of your adventure. Occasionally, a paragraph
may give instructions to increase or decrease your
SKILL score, but it may not exceed its Inifial value
unless you are specifically instructed to the contrary-

At various times during your adventure, you will be
told to Test your Skill. The procedure for this is exactly
the same as that for Testing your Luck: roll two dice. If
the number rolled is equal to or less than your current
SKILL score, you have succeeded in your test and the
result will go in your favour. If the number rolled 1s

11
higher than your current SKILL score, you will have
failed the test and will have to suffer the consequen-
ces. However, unlike Testing your Luck, do not subtract
1 point from your SKILL each time you Test your Skill,

Stamina

Your STAMINA score will change a lot during your
adventure. It will drop as a result of wounds gained
through combat, or by falling foul of traps and
pitfalls, and it will also drop after you perform any
particularly arduous task. If your STAMINA score ever
falls to zero, you have been killed and should stop
reading the book immediately. Brave adventurers
who wish to pursue their quest must roll up a new
character and start all over again.

You can restore lost STAMINA by eating meals or
Provisions. You start the game without any Provis-
ions, but during your adventure you will be able to
obtain meals. You must keep track of how many
meals worth of Provisions you have left by filling in
the details in the Provisions box of your Adventure
Sheet. Each time you eat a meal you may restore up to
4 points of STAMINA, but you must remember to
deduct 1 meal from your Provisions box. You may
stop and eat Provisions at any time except when you
are engaged in a battle.

Luck

Additions to your LUCK score may be awarded in the
adventure when you have been particularly lucky or
created your own luck by some action. Details are
given, where appropriate, in the paragraphs of the

12

book. Remember that, as with SKILL and STAMINA,
your LUCK score may never exceed its Initial value.

Time

During the first part of your adventure it is very
important that you keep track of the passage of time.
At various points you will be told to add one or more
Hours to the total time you have taken so far on your
adventure. This should be recorded in the Time
Elapsed box on your Adventure Sheet. The reason why
you must keep a careful track of time will become
apparent as your adventure progresses.

Equipment and Gold

You begin your adventure ing a sword, a lantern
and tinderbox, and a backpack to hold your Pro-
visions and Gold Pieces. To find out how many Gold
Pieces you begin your adventure with, roll two dice
and add 12 to the number rolled. Note this total down
in the Gold Pieces box on your Adventure Sheet. Your
sword and lantern should be noted in the Equipment
box on your Adventure Sheet, as must any other useful
items you may acquire on your quest.

Alternative Dice

If you do not have a pair of dice handy, dice rolls are
printed throughout the book at the bottom of the pages.
Flicking rapidly through the book and stopping on a
page will give you a random dice roll. If you need to
‘roll’ only one dice, read only the first printed dice; if
two, total the two dice symbols.

13
BLOODBONES ADVENTURE, SHEET | a

ITEMS AND EQUIPMENT CARRIED CODEWORDS

— ee" See

| Se Se
;
| Skill Starmttun = } ke : |
| | |
' ' , ( !
| | | | ! | i
| = = 2a a ee ————
|
|
!

————

—

_ NOTES AND CLUES

BACKGROUND

It all started ten years ago when the evil piratejord
Cinnabar murdered your family. At the time you
were only twelve years old and lived with your family
in the small fishing village of Clam Beach on the
northern coast of Ruddlestone, half-way between the
two major ports of the kingdom: Harabnab, home to
all lawful adventurers and sailors, and the sinister
Port of Crabs. Life in Clam Beach was not easy but it
did have a peaceful security about it And then the
terrible day came,

It was a clear summer's day in Warming when the
huge, forbidding, black galleon sailed into the bay,
flying the dreaded flag of the skull and crossbones:
pirates. The bloodthirsty cutthroats were soon racing
up the beach towards the village. The fighting was
swift and bloody, Soon most of the men folk of Clam
Beach had been killed, your father and two brothers
dying whilst trying to defend the village. In the end
the village elders had no choice but to surrender to the
marauding raiders and open the village’s meagre
treasure coffers. The cruel pirate captain came ashore
from his ship to collect the booty himself. The sight of
him filled you with awe and fear. The pirate was a tall,
handsome man with a neatly trimmed, pointed black
beard and his hair tied back in a ponytail. He was
dressed in the clothes of a nobleman, with a fine
scarlet coat, trimmed with gold braid, and wearing a
large tricorn hat. At his waist hung a gleaming cutlass

46

and you could not help noticing that on the back of his
right hand was tattooed the image of a grinning, black
skull. When the raiders had finally gone, filled with
feelings of hatred for those who had murdered your
family, you asked Raguy, the village soothsayer, who
the pirate captain was. ‘That villain is one of the most
evil men ever to sail the twelve seas of Titan!’ was
his vehement reply. ‘He is one of the most feared
pirate-lords of our age, a creature without remorse, a
murderer, and a follower of the bloodthirsty voodoo
death-god Quezkari, whose mark is the black skull.
His name is Cinnabar, but because of the terrible
atrocities he commits he is also known as Bloodbones.’
From that moment you vowed that, one day, you
would have your revenge on the evil Cinnabar.

Your mother became ill soon after that dreadful day
and three years later she died. On your sixteenth
birthday you left Clam Beach and made your way to
Harabnab, gaining the position of cabin boy on a ship
travelling to the distant continent of Allansia. So it is
that for the last six years you have sailed all across the
globe, but you never forgot the promise you made to
yourself a decade ago. Over many voyages you have
tried to learn as much as you can about the rogue
captain. You discovered that Cinnabar’s galleon, the
Virago, is frequently seen sailing in the waters around
Nankunu Bay and that he has a hidden base some-
where close to the Port of Crabs. You also gleaned as
much information as you could about the notorious
city. And so, when you decided that you were at last
ready to confront your enemy and the chance of

17

i lll

passage on a merchant ship sailing to the Port of
Crabs came up, you leapt at the opportunity. Ven-
geanice, you are sure, will soon be yours.

The Port of Crabs is haven to every pirate, buccaneer
and freebooter who ply their trade off the coast of the
kingdom of Ruddlestone in the Old World. As you
stand at the prow of the merchantman, looking
towards the land, you can make out the ramshackle
jumble of buildings of the infamous city and the
outline of the Old Fort that stands above it like some
ancient, crumbling sentinel. The merchantman
bumps against the stone jetty and you quickly
disembark. Not only is the Port of Crabs one of the
most dangerous cities in the Old World, but a thick
fog is starting to roll in from the sea. It is late afternoon
on a chill day in Unlocking and the docks are bustling
with activity. Standing close to the quayside is a large,
old stone building, which looks like it could
withstand a battering from Hydana, God of the Deep,
himself. Hanging over its sturdy oak door is a faded
sign declaring that this is the Jolly Roger. This seems
as good a place as any to begin your search for
Cinnabar, so you enter the inn.

The spacious bar inside the Jolly Roger is packed with
all manner of scurvy-looking sailors and other low-
lifes. The landlord is as big as an ox and has a large
anchor tattooed on one arm. No one takes any notice
of you as you enter, so you approach the bar and order
a tankard of ale (deduct 1 Gold Piece from your
Adventure Sheet). You decide to question the landlord
about Cinnabar first. Over your tankard of ale you

18

talk about the weather and the state of trade and then
draw the innkeeper onto the subject of the pirate you
seek. ‘I hear the Virago plies these waters,’ you say.
‘I'm surprised we weren't attacked ourselves.’

‘Not anymore it doesn’t,’ the landlord replies. “Have
you not heard? Cinnabar has been dead these last six
months.’

Cinnabar dead? You have come all this way, after
years of harbouring desires for revenge, only to find
that the dread pirate-lord has already passed from
this world! You ask the landlord how he died. ‘Have
you not heard? I would’ve thought that everyone as
far as the Diamond Islands would know by now. It all
happened last Hiding.” You listen attentively as the
innkeeper relates the tale. It appears that Cinnabar
and his crew were emptying the hold of a galley sail-
ing from Harabnab to Arkleton, in distant Analand,
when the renowned bounty hunter Conyn caught up
with them in his ship, the Fortune. Unable to escape,
Cinnabar and his men had to defend themselves
against the crews of the galley and Conyn. Fierce
fighting ensued with Cinnabar eventually falling at
Conyn’s hand, having suffered an incredible number
of wounds, his body being lost to the sea. With their
leader killed, the surviving members of his crew fled
aboard the Virago, returning to the Port of Crabs. Soon
after, Cinnabar’s second-in-command, Mirel the Red,
set off in the Virago amid terrible storms, purportedly
to recover her captain’s body. ‘Many now believe that
the pirate-lord’s galleon san:: as it has not been seen
since,’ the landlord says, concluding his story. You

19
thank him for his help and, in a bewildered daze, you
make to leave the inn. You console yourself with the
thought that at least the murderer of your family has
at last been brought to justice.

As you leave the Jolly Roger you feel someone pulling
on your jerkin. Turning round you discover that an
old drunk, slumped at a table by himself, is the one
trying to attract your attention. ‘Just because he’s
dead doesn’t mean he’s at rest,’ mutters the drunk.
Curious about the drunk’s words, you sit down
opposite the old man and ask him what he means.
‘Let's just say you don’t want to go believing every-
thing you hear. But I know what's going on. Oh yes,
old Dregg knows. Cinnabar isn’t really dead see, and
he’s coming back!’ the old man says in a harsh
whisper. Intrigued, you press Dregg to tell you more
but he suddenly becomes serious and looks round the
barroom uneasily. ‘Not here. Meet me outside in ten
minutes.’ You nod in agreement and leave the Jolly
Roger.

Tendrils of fog are now swirling around the boats in
the harbour and oozing along the streets of the town.
When the ten minutes are up you quickly return to the
Jolly Roger and sneak down the side alley next to it. In
the mist and shadows at the end of the narrow
alleyway you can make out three figures standing
over a fourth, cowering on the ground at their feet.
Wasting no time, you draw your sword and dash
towards them. Hearing your approach the three
pirates turn to face you. The burly characters are ugly,
scarred rogues and the biggest of them, who is easily

20

wielding a heavy wooden club in one hand and
holding a bullwhip in the other, looks as if he has
some Ogre blood in his lineage. At the pirates’ feet lies
Dregg, beaten, bruised and only just conscious.
‘Here’s the snooper,’ growls the Half-Ogre. “You're
no match for us. By the time we’ve finished with you,
you'll be feeding the shrimps. Or rather the shrimps’Il
be feeding on you.’ The other two pirates burst into
coarse laughter at their companion’s joke. ‘Yeah,
you're fishbait!’

Turn to paragraph 1.
SOR

ISLAND APMUNTMONT TEMPILAL O agen oF

—— —._ - ———~ FA fei! "NAD Kine os ae eR.
MONSTER ENCOUNTER BOXES |’ at |

} - —_—
Sill - Stull « t PSéil ~
Stamina = , Stumine = } , items =
| | |
| } } Ex, EOF rh “ rARSH! PREEWAY
| D ; TRAVELLER |
— (—————

Seid! = | | Self - : | jot “il = , }
Sarmimg = 1 « Chosrrdeay } Snumuime «
| | | | |
| | !
' |
} i] ' =47. Bi 00080N eS
; al | | min SAMURATE ai aie
| rr rr ——— ie | - ERS | -.
| Sted? = t | sii? = + | Sell «
) | Stamine - | Shevrima = j Saeed al = ‘
| | | |
| fh |
! } }
i ' '
' '
i — — I ——_ eee ——
; Seannina | Siamina . cae? | tCERY)) | (SORCERY! eon ERYY SURES

(a ee ee ‘h

: eS
— ee -

STEVE JACKSON so [AN LIVINGSTONE

seams

BRAND lv aN
_ AFig

BLOODBONES LIVES!

© dreaded pirate-lord Cinnabar, scourge of che twelve

». placued the seafarers of the Old World in a bloody
page ’

en of terror until a brave adventurer pur an end to his
|. Bur now he is back from che dead, seeking revenge,
with the dark power of voodoo at his command.

- $3xogaoo'19

YOU haye your own seore to settle — Cinnabar
murdered your fanily when you sere a child. Only
(OU can end the hopnfic slanghrer by destroying che
rate captiin and his crew ef curthroats. Game hell or
hi#h Warer Bloodbones must be stopped!

5 ly ane the
a) dite rele * 0 i

wi iM
oath Hook fay e009 are

| A pen on a which ho ute tw — =
you

c anvtty
, en Gi ich anger? wore

" By,
ee

th

heros

gyi hpltiladi reset barrie cel!

ISBNIO:7-84046-765-7
ISBNI3: 978-1840467-65-$

anal $I, as) 9176 1840"46765
(eee = Crtipel in edb

Sooee!

my yey RMN Ries 4 >
STEVE JACKSON 4nd TAN LIVINGSTONE

ns
*
ri
i
pes
:
<=)
= he
~~
ba

ont TAY
' . |
[cee yg = BLOODBONES
> Soka , Db Me
Me, Pay . af G , Sav
= er é , ,
CAVERNS RIAL UT ASWIES CF
Ss

www.fightingfantasy.com ! |
BY JONATHAN GREEN
ILLUSTRATED BY TONY HOUGH

Visit the Fighting Fantasy website for...

' ‘ ,

Latest news on
4

Fighting Fantasy Gamebooks and events {

| PvE Prererryre eign Wivetian

Wizard Books

Competitions and games

