STEVE JACKSON AND IAN LIVINGSTONE

frann

THE FIGHTING
FANTASY WORLDs oy

EDITED BY
MARC GASCOIGNE

i ®

ieee

mi BSUE heii eee

cs. fia >

Fer fies: Rog

ee ricer

Find Cityport of Ds
(Masten hy Jobs Blane)

Puffin Books|

‘TITAN
‘The Fighting Fantasy Wodd

Steve Jackson and Tan Livingstone
Edited by Mare Gascoigne

Since its fist appearance on the Earthly Pane in 1982,
‘wi ihe publication of Steve Jackson's and lan Living
stone's famous Th Wao of Feta Moanin, the
‘World of Titan has gradlly become explored ata
Detter known. While tere relnain uncharted region,
‘wating tobe opened up by brave venturets, Book
afer book of Poffi’s Fighting Fanusy sencs has
revealed evermore ofthis fantasy word

Hoare fr the fist ime ina single volume i all you
ever wanted to know about Tian. Not only are the
three continents desenbed and. mapped, but the
Underwater kingdoms too are discussed. The chieh
races and peronalies of Tan - your alias wells
your enemies have whole sections devoted to them
Here you can learn of thelr history and their gods,
‘hls lkes and dss, their ites and villages.

‘Did you know that Logaan the Tihater god Gest
created Man? How flr are you with the legend of
the Dwarf hero Hangahar Goldseeker? What should
‘you do if offered a fagon of Ore ale? Al this informa
Hon and mucky much mor ist be found within the
‘pages of Tan The ight Eantey Worl

Steve Jackson and lan Livingstone are the co-
founders of the hugely successful Games Workshop
chain and also creators of the whole fighting Fantasy
Series. Mare Gascoigne isthe editor of Wack, the
Fighting Fantasy magazine, and co-author of the best-
seling fudge Dred, he Ral Pleing Gams. He also
feted Out ofthe Pi, the book of Fighting Fantasy
Monsters
TITA

THE FIGHTING FANTASY ‘WORLD

Steve Jackson and
Jan Livingstone

Edited by
Marc Gascoigne

PUFFIN BOOKS

For Tony, who deserves it, and Chetna, whe doesn’t

Eira Lande 8 S12 Eg
‘hingPegene baie Soe New on Now Yr 101, U5
Fenpun Sc Aus poo Ve ae

inks has i oie, nom, Ca Canads LR BE
Fegan Neh t0 Mens Ro aca New a

Pegs Lit Ryu moment, Ms, pnd

epee 1985, 1985

Copii Bee Cane Svan Legon 886
bears Caos ee 106

arate Bla, al ener eo Haran, Be He Buon,
‘inant i ssn es
‘etic oh ec 1986

Aagharoene

Pindar ean

Type Flt by Wem Typing i Be

cept he Unie sae Aeri, is al at
Gi ss pales Sn witout sir conden
‘Mating snd eg impor othe suet purser

CONTENTS

Acknowledgements
Foreword

Welcome, Brave Adventurer!

The World of Titan
Allansia, Land of Danger
The Old World

Khul, the Dark Continent
The Skies of Titan

History and Legend

In the Beginning

The Time of Heroes
The Rise of Civilization
The Spawning of Chaos
The War of the Wizards
The New Age

The Forces of Good

The Gods of Good

Dwarfs — The Delvers of the Deep
Elves - The Children of Galana
The Lesser Races of Good

Allies

The Neutral Forces

Lord Logaan the Trickster
Servants of the Tricksters
The Animal Court

The Forces of Evil and Chaos

The Dark Lords of Chaos

The Demon Princes, Masters of the Pit
Orcs — The Warriors of Evil

Goblins = The Children of Evil
Troglodytes

Trolls and Ogres

The Snake People

The Lizard Men of the Southern Jungles
Dark Elves - Servants of the Night

The Faces of Evil and Chaos
Razaak, the Undying One
Malbordus, the Storm Child
Shareella, the Snow Witch

The Demonic Three

Sukumvit and Carnuss

The Archmage

Lord Azzur, The Tyrant of Blacksand

The Underwater Kingdoms
The Children of Hydana
Atlantis, the Sunken City

The Titan Calendar
Reckoning the Years
Measuring the Months
Pacing Out the Days

The Adventuring Life

Travelling from A(lansia) to Bfaddu-Bak)
Roughing It!

Money

Inns and Taverns

Farewell, Brave Adventurer!

BSESSRHUR RESRK © xm

ESRESSRISS SIRS SHREK

6 TITAN - THE FIGHTING FANTASY WORLD

ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS

A number of entries in this book are based on places
and characters invented by the following authors. So
many thanks to Andrew Chapman for the lands of the
Inland Sea, from Sens of Blood; Peter Darvill-Evans for
Zagoula and Lake Mlubz, from Benerth Nightmare
Castle; the other Steve Jackson for Scorpion Swamp
and the King’s Highway, from Srorpion Swamp, and for
Atlantis, from Demons of the Deep; Paul Mason and

Steve Williams for the Riddling Reaver, from The
Riddling Reaver; Mark Smith and Jamie Thomson for
the land of Hachiman, from Stuwrd af the Samurai; Robin
Waterfield for Pikestaff Plain and the city of Arion,
from Masks of Mayhem, To all these good people we
offer our relieved and heartfelt thanks — Titan would
have been a much smaller place without you!

FOREWORD

FOREWORD

The world of Titan, according to its history books, was
created by the gods from a lump of magical clay
discovered by the goddess Throff. In fact, Titan came
into being in the latter part of 1981, when we were
wearing our quills to the feathers, working furiously
on The Magic Quest.

The Magic Quest was the current working title for a
project we had begun in August of that year — and it
was a title that neither of us could bear! But after
endless debales we still could not agree on another
title for the book. Finally, a compromise was reached,
Ian, who had written the first part of the book, had
mentioned in the opening paragraph that the whole
adventure would take place in Firetop Mountain.
Steve, who wrote the final part, had made the ultimate
battle once with a powerful sorcerer, Zagor the
Warlock. On the day that the book was handed in, the
final title was agreed: The Warlock of Firetop Moucttain.

Thus Firetop Mountain was the first location in what
was to become Allansia, [t was followed by the Forest
of Yore, the Vale of Willow and Craggen Rock from
Citadel of Chaos, and Darkwood Forest, Stonebridge
and Yaztromo’s Tower in Forest of Daonr. The existence
of Allansia itself was formally announced in April 1984
when the first cdition of Werlock magazine was
published. Now a collector's item, Warlock 1 featured
the first map of Allansia ever released.

Since then, the map has been expanded. Now there
are not one but Hire continents in the Fighting Fantasy
world of Titan. Ian, and to a lesser extent Steve, has

continued to develop Allansia, All of Ian's books
except one have taken place in the north-western
comer of this continent. The Old World comprises
Kakhabad (the land of Steve's Sorcery!), its surround-
ing kingdoms and Gallantaria, from The Tasks of Tar-
talon. The third continent, Khul, is largely unexplored,
with much work left to be done to chart its unknown
reaches,

But since that day in 1981, the world of Titan has been
alive for both of us ~ a retreat from everyday life into
another world, a world in which we have effectively
been GamesMasters In a huge global fantasy role-
playing game. We have enjoyed developing the
legends, lore, rumours and plots of the adventures,
And we have chuckled at the tricks and traps we have
set for our readers. There is Good and there is Evil;
there is Law and there is Chaos. But like the Trickster
Gods, we have striven to ensure a balance in the
world...

The task of collating the information contained in all
the books based in Titan has fallen on a learned scholar
whose excellent work on Out of te Pit makes him an
ideal candidate for the job ~ Mare Gascoigne. Not only
has Mare had to extract information from nooks and
crannies throughout all the books ~ and some of this
was hiding in the most obscure places - but he has
effectively had to assemble it into a sort of
Encyclopedia of Fighting Fantasy. The result is Titen -
The Fighting Fantasy World and we would like to con-
gratulate him on his laborious work. It is an invaluable
aid to adventurers the world over,

a pas

ap aa Ss

WELCOME, BRAVE ADVENTURER!

Welcome to our humble treatise on the wide and
dangerous world of Titan. Within its covers you will
find much that will prove helpful to you as you cleave
your way across wild lands in search of fame and glory
... and treasure! With the help of all the information
crammed into this essential work of reference, you will
finally be equipped to fulfil your destiny as a hero,
fighting for the Forces of Good!

You will find geography — masterful charts and draw-
ings of all the settled and not-so-settled lands of Titan.
You will find maps of the Old World, home of civiliza-
tion and of learning; of Allansia, savage land of
sorcerers and barbarians; and of Khul, which we call
the Dark Continent, the wasted birthplace of Chaos.
We will show you plans of Elven villages and Dwarf
citadels, of rank human cities and rat-infested Orcish
caverns; there is even a portrayal of a citadel of the
terrible Snake People of the southern deserts. We have
stopped at naught to bring this awesome information
to you!

We will present you with a history of this cruel world
of ours, starting with the very creation of the many
races and the releasing of Time into our world, to bring
death to us all. We shall take a stroll through the
Celestial Court, and introduce you to the many gods
and goddesses who toy with us in all our daily activi-
tles. Then we will walk the face of our planet tu reveal
to you the forefathers of our lands, the legendary
heroes and the dastardly villains who shaped our
world. Shudder as the foul spawn of Chaos itself rears
from the perverted ground, intent on swallowing the
whole world in its toothless maw! Cheer as the Porces
of Good drive the revolting armies back into the
ground to fester and decay!

But what of the world today? We shall introduce you
to all the main races, from the dour Dwarfs to the
ancient Elves, and from the inscrutably evil Snake
People to the crude and inhuman Orcs and Goblins.
We will reveal secrets of the world’s most evil men and
their allies — and of those few brave souls who would

oppose them. We will show you traders and mer-
chants, craftsmen and innkeepers, and many other
notables, whom you may even have the luck to meet
on your own adventures.

From where has all this information come, you ask?
Well, warzior, it has been compiled over many, many
years by a great number of sages and scholars from all
corners of the world. We have wandered far and wide,
poking our collective noses in everywhere we could,
in search of new and revealing information about this
complex world of ours, And now, after twelve years’
compiling all our notes into one volume in the Halls of
Learning in Salamonis, we present our masterpiece to
you.

Por any stay-at-home types, it will perhaps offer a
glimpse of something different, and show this world
of ours in all its glory and mystery. You will learn
many things from the pages which follow, both useful
and trivial. Who knows, it may even persuade you
that there are more things to life than ploughing fields
or selling your wares in the market-place,

For you adventurers, however, we can guarantee that
it will prove an invaluable guide throughout your
travels, no matter how far they may take you. There
are a great many dangers in this world, but with the
help of this volume you should be as prepared as any
man or woman could be. We begin, just over the page,
with what we believe is the first map of the whole of
Titan to have been seen outside of the learned enclaves
of Salamonis, Kaynlesh-Ma or Royal Lendle. It shows
Allansia, Kakhabad and its surrounding lands, the
mysterious continent of Khul, and many isolated
islands which have been discovered and named only
recently. Do not be alarmed by the size and extent of
the lands of Titan, however: you will never need to
journey far to find adventure!

So, brave adventurer, turn the page ... and may the

gods in their wisdom ensure that you find all that you
seek!

“2

PS LS
=o es ge

a bed
ae Sa ak

ca

—

2

are! Pee en THE

Satan a FL aTLAN?®-S ,
<= DESERT. “SSNS

a

—

Compass |

Fire e] bt
; ~~ 0% ,

na, Ae

oT

Dolphial,
—~c- Vymorna ~ 6

; wi sland
44 of Scars

OC]
WESTERN TEMPESTS

OCEAN aes
. 1 ae 8

Crucible 1°

. oF Shining
Islands

fs ies.
& N eee Oe

aca ee $4 amg *
EELSE! Be. = Royal Ss “ho.

SSS Se ke - WESTERN

cme” eal oe OCEAN

a5 |

}

THE

“54> BATTLEGROUNDS
~~

Yotakami 1.2%.

poe igs

12 TITAN — THE FIGHTING FANTASY WORLD

THE WORLD OF TITAN

Allansia, Land of Danger

Let us start our journey across Titan with the most
notorious of all lands, Allansia. [t may offer the
greatest prizes for a daring, ambitious adventurer, but
it also offers the greatest dangers. Throughout the
land, the Forces of Evil are drawing together, growing
ever stronger; in the north, corrupt humans bring
forth wild magic into the world, knowing little of what
they are really doing; and creatures are stirring in the
southern swamps, things that will ultimately affect all
of Allansia. For these reasons, if for no others, you
should study Allansia in far more detail than other
lands.

Originally, ‘Allansia’ was simply the name of one
small part of the great continent, the extreme western
area between the Icefinger Mountains and the north-
ern reaches of the Desert of Skulls. It means ‘the
Teeming Plains’ in a very ancient, much-corrupted
Elven tongue, for the land has always been covered
with a multitude of races, each fighting for dominance
over the tiny corner of the continent. In recent cen-
turles, however, the name has come to mean the entire
landmass, from the Dragon Reaches to the Strait of
Knives, from Kaynlesh-Ma and Arantis to the Iceberg
Straits. Nevertheless, when most people speak of
Allansia, they still mean the small pocket of life cower-
ing alongside the northem shores of the Western
Ocean, dominated by the unholy vermin-pit that is
Port Blacksand.

Blacksand is a relatively new city, built on the ruined
docks of an earlier and much larger city completely
destroyed and abandoned in the years following the
cataclysmic War of the Wizards, Because of the ruins,
however, and because itis situated at the mouth of the
Catfish River, another settlement quickly grew up
among the ruins of the old. Unlike the cartier city, the
new one was not designed as spacious and geometric,
but isa ramshackle heap of wood and stone buildings
piled high on top of one another, a haven for thieves
and brigands, pirates and cut-throats who prey on one
another and on more innocent citizens. The city is
ruled over by the mysterious Lord Azzur, a tyrant
known both for his great ruthlessness and for his
quirky acts of ‘charity’. We shall return to Blacksand
and Azzur in more detail later. Suffice it to say at this
point — beware Blacksand!

This corner of the continent is wild - mostly rough
moorland interspersed with hills and tangled forests.
Its climate varies considerably from sticky, sweaty
summers to frigid, snow-bound winters, with many
days of torrential rain or sunshine in between; despite
the best attempts of sages and weather-mages, the
weather in Allansia remains annoyingly unpredict-
able, The Jand is bounded to the north by the frozen
peaks of the Icefinger Mountains, which manage to
shelter the lands from the colder gusts which billow
down from the Frozen Plateau nearly a hundred
leagues further north across the ice plains. The Ice-

finger Mountains are a desolate place, inhabited by
wild creatures like Yeti and the subhuman Toa-Suo.
The only hurnans who venture this far north come in
search of skins and furs, if they dare come at all.

THE SETTLED LANDS

The southernmost boundary of the foothills of the
Icefinger Mountains is marked by the wide River Kok,
which brings trading barges and galleys downstream
from the strange Gty of Zengis twenty day's upstream,
to the thriving town of Fang, capital of the province of
Chiang Mai, Fang is a prosperous place, ruled over by
the devious Baron Sukumvit. Every year the locals
make a monetary killing frorn the many visitors who.
arrive for the Trial of Champions, a vicious death-test
run by the Baron with a prize of 10,000 Gold Pieces for
the warrior who can survive it, but for the rest of the
year they earn their money by extracting extortionate
river taxes from the traders who pass upstream and
downstream.

Beyond the River Kok, the Pagan Plains stretch for
many, many days, dotted with the small settlements
of simple peasant folk. The north-eastern corner is
watched over by Firetop Mountain, whose summit,
coloured red by strange plants, once made people
believe it was a volcano, Beneath the mountain, there
is rumoured to be a subterranean dungeon complex,
ruled over by an evil warlock, though some locals
Swear that he is now dead, killed by a fearless adven-
turer. {If so, you may have to look elsewhere to make
your fortune!) Heading further south, we arrive at
Stunebridge, a Dwarf town famous both for its mines
and for its rumbustious leader Gilibran, whose
legendary magical hammer returns to the hand of the
wielder when thrown! The Dwarfs of Stonebridge are
friendly towards adventurers, preferring to vent their
anger upon the local tribe of Hill Trolls, with whom
they have been warring for many decades.

Heading south, we cross the Red River (so called
because of its colour, which comes from carrying red
soil from its source high in the lonely Moonstone
Hills), and immediately find ourselves in Darkwood
Forest, a wild and dangerous tangle of trees and
brambles which stretches away southwards, It is ~
bisected by the Catfish River, which flows on down to
the sea at Port Blacksand. The forest is hame to a great
tnany ¢vil creatures, and a prominent local legend has
tong told of a large city of Dark Elves in caverns deep
beneath it, [t is certainly true that hunting parties of
Darkside Elves roam the forest after dark, burning
isolated farmsteads and abducting humans, presum-
ably to be their slaves,

The lower reaches of the Pagan Plains are windswept
and Jess hospitable, for they open out at their eastern
end to the Windward Plains, and thence to the Flat-
lands, an enormous area of grassland and steppes
which stretch all the way to the Sea of Pearls, far, far
away on the other side of Allansia. There are fewer
settlers on these lands, and a traveller would be hard

14 TITAN = THE FIGHTING FANTASY WORLD

pressed to find a friendly face until he reached the
safety of the ancient Forest of Yore and the walled city
of Salamonis, which is almost as old as the forestand is
situated on the banks of the fast-flowing Whitewater
River, where it runs through the Vale of Willow. The
forest is many thousands of years old, and the half-
Elven tribes who live within its eaves speak guardedly
of its many ancient secrets. Salamonis itself was built
before the War of the Wizards. By the scale of such
matters in those days, lt was little more than a small
walled ctadel, but to the present population it is a
solid, ancient city. It derives its name from the
Salamon line, who have always ruled over the city.
The present king, Salamon LXIL, is renowned for his
ancient library, which is said to contain many import-
ant documents relating to earlier ages of Allansia, but
also for his laxness in allowing the Craggen Heights
and Trolltooth Pass to become overrun with Orcs,
Goblins and worse creatures.

Trolltooth Pass is the true gateway into Allansia, for
beyond it lie the Windward Plains and the Flatlands. [t
is a dangerous place, only three leagues wide at its
narrowest point, and bounded by the Moonstone Hills
and the northern reaches of the Craggen Heights, two
ranges of inhospitable highlands which give shelter to
all manner of human-hating races. Along its length are
the ruins of watchtowers and fortresses, built by
various local rulers through the centuries in an
attemp!t to fortify the pass against intruders. At one
point, there are the remains of a massive wall, which
stretches for perhaps eight leagues, fortified every two
leagues with massive (and now crumbling) gate-
houses, before petering away into the scrubland. The
Tuins are haunted by the ghosts of the thousands of
warriors who at one time or another gave their lives to
defend this narrow strip of land.

THE FLATLANDS

When an Allansian wishes to express the size of
something so big that it cannot be imagined, he simply
says ‘as wide as the Flatlands’, The gently rolling
plains stretch for many weeks’ ride, spanning an area
far larger than that of ald Allansia, until they slowly
dip down to the shores of the Sea of Pearls on the other
side of the continent. In comparison to the Pagan
Plains, they are sparsely populated, but humans and
other beings do live there. Many small tribes of
nomadic horsemen roam the wastelands, setting up
their villages in one spot for no more than a few days,
before moving on. They are short, sallow-skinned
people, with slanting eyes and coal-black hair. Horses
run wild on the Flatlands, and worse creatures too;
both are hunted by the tribesmen, who are experts at
wielding bow and lasso from the backs of galloping
horses. The tribes could offer a preat threat to settled
Allansia if they were ever brought together asa single
fighting unit, for they are hardy warriors; but they are
proud people, fiercely loyal to their particular tribe,
and it would take a great power indeed to unite them
against other peoples.

The Flatlands are intermittently crossed by trading
caravans from Zengis, which skirt the safer northern
fringes of the plains on their long journcys to the city
of Sardath, and from there on to ice-bound Frostholm

and the cities of Fangthane and Vynheim. Sardath is
an alarming city, built on stilts over a lake, which is
itself squeezed precariously between two sheer moun-
tain peaks. It is inhabited by the rough men and
Dwarfs who built the city a few centuries ago to house
them while they exploited the many resources of the
inhospitable region. North of Sardath, in the foothills
of the Freezeblood Mountains (known to the Dwarfs
as the Kalakdr, or ‘Wall of the Gods’), gold mines
penetrate deep into the earth, trappers hunt bear,
snow-fox and rarer creatures for their laxuriuus pelts,
and Jumberjacks work timber from the thick forests. It
is a rough land, and it takes its toll of even the
strongest, but the rewards are great for those who can
survive,

: |

Wise
: r

Ne
YS git a
nui AR
} i

THE WORLD OF TITAN 15

FROSTHOLM

Further north still is Frostholm, a land of mountains
and fjords inhabited by a race of hardy, broad-
shouldered humans who live alongside Dwarfs in
their stone and timber settlements. Vynheim is the
only major settlement in Frostholm, though every
inlet of Bjomprim’s Sea (named after an ancient giant-
slaying hero) is dotted with farmsteads and small
villages. The city perches on a plateau overlooking
Vynfjord, from where boats set off for the open ocean
beyond the Giant's Teeth, even as far as Gallantaria
across the Ocean of Tempests. The people of Frost-
holm are strong sailors and doughty warriors, for they
have had their share of conflict, especially in the
legendary wars against the Frost Giants which once
dwelt in the Kalakdr — wars which are celebrated in
sang whenever the people get the chance!

The Dwarfs, for their part, respect the northmen as
great warriors, and there are many links between the
two races. However, there are some things which the
Dwarfs will always keep to themselves, and for this
reason no human has ever entered the great citadel of
Fangthane. Ruled over by King Namdrkill, Fangthane
is revered by Dwarfs from all lands as the focus for all
Dwarf peoples. Carved from the insides of a mountain
in the Time of Legends, while the first humans were
still learning how to throw rocks, it is truly one of the
wonders of the world.

SHABAK AND THE SOUTHLANDS

Far away south across the Sea of Pearls {a curious
name for a wild, stormy gulf where no man has ever
dived for oysters!}, the small principality of Shabak
thrusts out into the Ocean of Tempests, perched on a
peninsula which is part of a much-feared stretch of
coastline known as the Storm Coast. Gales blow across
the ocean from the east, bringing hurricane winds and
whirling tornadoes which batter against this side of
Allansia like the hammer of an enormous Giant.
Shabak itself consists of tittle more than the single city-
state of Bakulan, which hides away on the western
side of the Shabak Peninsula. Little is known of this
land, save that some of its merchants occasionally
trade with the subhuman peoples who dwell in the
Plain of Bones further inland.

The Plain of Bones is another desolate, wind-swept
jand, It is bounded to the north by the baking Plain of
Bronze, to the east by the impassable Bay of Storms, to
the south by the unctossable Mountains of Grief, and
to the west by the Swamplands of Silur Cha, known
throughout the south as the domain of the Lizard
Men. The Plain of Bones takes its name partly from the
dinosaurs which roam across it, and partly from the
primitives who hunt them, Once, maybe, there was
civilization here — al any rate, occasional ghost-haunt-
ed ruins of small settlements and fortifications dot the
plains —but that must have been many, many lifetimes
ago, for now there are only the dinosaurs and their
hunters.

Further south still, beyond even the Mountains of
Grief, a few small communities cling precamously to
the coast around the Glimmering Sea. Isolates trom
16 TITAN — THE FIGHTING FANTASY WORLD

the other civilized parts of Allansia by the mountains
and the plains, and visited by few merchants from the
far north as a result, they have not grown much
beyond tiny city-states, ruled over by dynasties who
occasionally trade with one another, and occasionally
war with one another, but who never influence the
rest of Allansia. Little is known about these lands by
the scholars and sages of the north.

SILUR CHA AND THE SWAMPLANDS

Thick jungles and swamplands line the wide Gulf of
Shamuz, making lt a perilous place for any adven-
turer. Even worse, they mark the full extent of the
Lizard Man Empire, an evil domain which is slowly
threatening to spread out across the face of the south-
lands, The eastern part is known to us as Silur Cha, a
Lizard Man term which (very approximately) means
‘Home to the Supreme Majesties of all Lizards’. At the
heart of the swampland there is the unholy city of Silur
Cha itself, which is indeed home to the Lizard Man
emperors and their human-hating followers. Except in
the scrying pools of sorcerers, no human has ever seen
Silur Cha and lived to tell the tale, for Lizard Men hate
all intelligent life and will allow nothing to cross their
swamplands — as if anyone could! The swamplands
themselves cover an area almost equal in size to the
Pagan Plains, and are Inhabited by giant snakes,
crocodiles and, of course, the Lizard Men themselves.

The northern extent of the evil Lizard Man Empire is
currently spread along the Vymorn River, at the
mouth of which stands the besieged city of Vymorna,
For six years now, the city has been cut off by the
inhuman troops, who have slowly pounded away at
the walls until they have reached the inner fortifica-
tions and the keep. Vymorna is an old city, built to
withstand a great deal, but its back is broken and its

people cannot hold out for much longer. Over the six
years, a few brave warriors have attempted to escape
the city in search of aid, but none has ever made It all
the way across the Snakelands or the Desert of Skulls,
$0 no aid has ever been sent.

When Vymorna falls, a3 it surely must, the Lizard Men
will find that they are opposed by the equally vile
Caarth, the Snake People who dwell in stone cities
excavated on the fringes of the Desert of Skulls known
as the Snakelands. Even if they win against them, the
Lizard Men will simply be faced by the endless wastes
of the Desert of Skulls itself. Unless, of course, thelr
attention turns to Arantis...

ARANTIS AND KAYNLESH-MA

Just south of that stretch of the Western Ocean known
as the Pirate Coast, the city of Kaynlesh-Ma guards the
head of the River Eltus, as capital of a land called
Arantis, The people of Kaynlesh-Ma are strange,
being highly religious and learned, but also hard-
working and physical. The city and the land are
governed by the Overpriest, who Is widely believed
by his subjects to be the incarnation of a messenger of
the gods, and is therefore treated with incredible
deference and loyalty by his subjects. The priests of
Arantis are known for their learning, even in old
Allansia far to the north, but even more famous are the
exotic spices, oils and cloth which merchants bring to
the northern Jands. Galleys regularly ply up and down
the cost from as far away as Fang— making them ideal
prey for the pirates of the Bay of Elkor and Blacksand
itself!

Not for nothing is the stretch of water around the Bay
of Elkor known as the Pirate Coast. While the two
cities which face each other from twin peaks at its

——— — —EEE

GARIUS OF HALAK

|

THE WORLD OF TITAN 17

seaward end, Halak and Rimon, are not especially
aligned to Evil, they are havens for thieves, pirates and
gamblers, though most of these have their hideouts
among the many inlets of the bay itself. Every so often,
the piracy gets so bad that the powerful merchants of
the three cities force the rulers into action, and for a
few weeks the pirates are driven underground ~
maybe a few are actually caught and hanged. But
when the fuss dies down, asit always does, the pirates
reemerge and continue their dastardly trade as if
nothing had happened.

North and east of the Bay of Elkor there is only the arid
expanse of the Desert of Skulls, which stretches as far
as the mind can imagine, Within these endless wastes
great treasures are rumoured to be hidden among the
ruins of cities like the legendary Vatos, but few adven-
turers would be so foolish as to try to cross them
without an overwhelmingly good reason. Even the
rampaging Lizard Men may have some difficulty
adapting to the searing heat of this waterless wilder-
ness. Around the northern fringes of the Desert of
Skulls, traders and nomads trek on camels, bringing
goods to the few settlements of the northern edges of
the Plain of Bronze, but they do not go far into the
desert, for they know how inhospitable it is,

~~"

;
&

(i
f
f
!
i
t
ui
i
{

---- =e,
i

“-—

SSS
Sa

=
aS

aS
SS

= - ~
Fy | Cobian scene)
»
=~
-
-— => \ ee es 5

eS

Pressing on further north, the desert turns into the
broken wasteland of the Southern Plain, which gradu-
ally leads back into settled Allansia, where we started
our journey. Much of Allansia is uncivilized and very
hostile, and it must be sald that there is as much
adventure to be found in this corner of the world as
any other - which is perhaps why so few adventurers
need ever cxplore the world beyond Trolltooth Pass
and the Southern Plains.

The greatest pirate of all those who ply their deadly trade along the Pirate Coast is Captain Garius of Halak.
He learnt his trade in the service of the feared Captain Bartella before setting off in his own ship, The Death’s
Head, to bring fear and terror to all seamen of Allansia, both merchants and pirates alike - for Garius does
not care whom he attacks, as long as it brings in gold or precious cargo. He has a secret hideout somewhere

|

along the coast, but is normally ta be found in one of the many taverns in the dockland quarter of Halak - |
when he is not out on the high seas in search of a heavily laden galleon, that is!

i

The Old World

The people of Allansia often wondered what lay across
the Western Ocean, that vast rolling expanse of
monster-infested water which stretched as far as the
eye could see, Some said that the ocean just went on
for ever, and a ship would sail until its crew died of
starvation and thirst, without reaching land. Others
said that you would travel for weeks and weeks, never
sighting land, until you sailed over the waterfall at the
end of the world! But some had heard legends which
said that Allansia was once joined to two other con-
tinents, which were split apart by the gods for some
terrible crime many, many centurics ago, They knew
that out there somewhere was another land, though
what it was like they could not imagine.

Eventually, however, brave mariners did make the
crossing. Sailing due west for many weeks, with
dolphins dancing around the prow and flying fish
skimming by their side, they finally caught sight of
Jand - and what a land! The first sailors from Allansia
to visit the Old World, as its inhabitants called the
landmass, landed near Arkleton, the capital of Ana-
land, where they were received by the king. Scholars
were eager to learn about the second continent, which
they had long suspected to exist. The sailors travelled
across the whole of the continent, being shown the full
extent of the land they had ‘discovered’. Moreover,
when they came to Pollua in Lendleland, they met
mariners from yet another continent, who had made
the long and perilous voyage across the Occan of
Serpents from Khul. Eventually the sailors returned to
Allansia, where they at once declared what they had
discovered to scholars and anyone else who was
interested. Now merchants and adventurers make the
crossing quite regularly, with perhaps two boats a year
taking goods and travellers to the continent, which
ironically they called the New World fora while, until
its real name was known!

The Old Wodld is a land of contrasting regions, from
the Jush grassy plains of Lendleland to the unscalable
peaks of the Cloudcap Mountains in Mauristatia. Its
people live mostly from the land, but it has many
larger settlements as well, for it escaped the
cataclysmic wars that have kept the other continents
from attaining true civilization. Some of the kingdoms
of the Old World have not reached their full develop-
ment, but just about all of them are more sophisticated
and civilized than anywhere In Allansia or Khul.

FEMPHREY, CHALANNA’S LAND

The most important Jand at the moment is Femphrey,
a wealthy kingdom on the western coast of the con-
tinent. It is a flat, fertile country of grassy plains
crossed by many rivers and sprinkled with small
clumps of old woodland. Its people are ruddy, brown-
skinned folk who always seem to be laughing and
smiling with the joys of life, though this was not
always the casc, Many years ago, Femphrey was a
poor and tawdry land, its soil moderately fertile but its
people glum and unenthusiastic. Its decrepit capital
Fernnis, situated near the coast on the mouth of the
Fermnis River, was rapidly crumbling around the cars
of the king and its poverty-stneken merchants.

THE WORLD OF TITAN 19

But all this changed when King Chalanna found the
artefact known as the Crown of Kings. This magical
symbol of rulership made him wise and charismatic,
and he quickly inspired his people into revitalizing
their country. Within the space of just a few years
Chalanna had worked wonders. The capital city was
torn down before it could fall down, and a brand-new
one was built in its place from the proceeds of the
nation’s new prosperity. Named Chalannabrad after
its most famous resident, it is a wide, open city, with
pleasant treeined avenues running between large,
well-built houses and clean parks and public squares,
and stands at the mouth of the renamed Chalanna
River.

From its impressive docklands, ships sail out into the
strange Eclsea, a mysterious place which takes its
name from the Great Eels which live there, though itis
also home to Serpents, Sea Dragons, the huge horned
Bullwhales, the mythical Decapi (frightening, intelli-
gent, tentlegped creatures found nowhere else on
Titan), and worse. As they set out to travel up or down
the coast, or merely to fish, every boat and ship
ensures that there is a fully qualified naval sorcerer on
board .. . just in case!

At the other end of the Chalanna River lies Crystal
City, a wonderful place built entirely from crystals
dredged from the intriguing Crystal Lake. Hot springs
beneath the surface of the waters keep them very
warm; sometimes, when the springs are very active,
the water of the lake actually boils, The River of Fire
which feeds the lake springs from the slopes of an

nT

BE

20 TITAN — THE FIGHTING FANTASY WORLD

active volcano high among the peaks of neighbouring
Mauristatia, and brings strange minerals to the lake.
These react with the steaming Jake and form crystals
which are mined by the people of Crystal City, and toa
lesser extent by those of Rorutuna.

LENDLELAND

The people of Lendleland are very jealous of those of
Femphrey in many ways, Their mining operations in
Crystal Lake are nothing like as successful as those of
the Femphreyans. The capital city and chief port,
Pollua, is small and run down, and the fishing
grounds off its coast are not as rich as those of the
Eelsea. Its people are poor and superstitious. Much of
the land is infertile grassy plain, suitable only for
breeding wild horses (which admittedly make the best
mounts in the world}. In the eastern hills, rebellious
barbarians still make raids on the other country, to
Lendleland's eternal shame.

Their dissatisfaction came to a head in a very petty
dispute with Femphrey over who actually owned the
Siltbed River, which flows out of Crystal Lake and
marks the boundary of the two nations. After many
years of squabbling, Chalanna the Reformer in his
gracious wisdom granted Lendleland full rights to the
river, and at the same time lent them the awesome
Crown of Kings. This tremendous gesture of peace
was heartily welcomed by Lendleland: there was even
some talk of the two kingdoms merging under the
joint rule of Chalanna himself, But in fact the river is a
poor prize. It has a thick silty bed and is tidal, so that a
great many boats and barges regularly line its banks
waiting for the high tide to float them off again. Its
waters are also filthy with minerals and waste from the
Crystal Lake, and they are not fit to drink. When the
Crown was passed on to Gallantaria after four years,
the people began to see Chalanna as an opportunistic
swindler, and the old squabbles started again.

ANALAND AND THE EASTERN COAST

At the far eastern end of the Anvils of the Gads, the
land drops sharply down towards the country of
Analand, where it is immediately blocked by the
enormous Great Wall of Analand, built to check the
raids of unruly barbarians from eastern Lendleland. It
was a foolish gesture to attempt to build a wall around
an entire kingdom, however, and the project was
abandoned with several large sections missing, before
the country bankrupted itself and the king was
deposed! Today Analand is a pleasant land with hard-
working and honest citizens, In the southern part,
known as Far Analand, spices and strange plants are
grown, before being carried and shipped all over the
continent by merchants and ships from Gummport.
Most of Analand's citizens live in the broad plain
which runs north from Lake Libra. The lake is revered
as a holy site of great importance, for it is said that the
goddess of justice, patron goddess of Analand, once
appeared to a sick man on the lakeside and cured him
of his ills. The lake is now ringed with the monasteries
of many religious groups; pilgrims travel to Libra from
all over the land. At the far end of the fertile plain, on
the banks of the Goldflow River, lies Arkleton, capital
of Analand and home to its king, The river has its

‘
'

r |

- =

ss

source in Goldwater Lake, which lies some way to the
north, The lake is rich in metal ores, and fine particles
of ore can actually be seen floating in suspension in the
water! The town of Scarton on its shore recovers the
gold and the other metals, and refines them into the
ingots which give Analand much of its wealth.

THE VERMIN-PIT

Kakhabad is a wild land, populated by thieves and
brigands, monsters and evil inhumans, and many
other outcasts from the rest of the world. It is a Jand
tainted by the touch of Chaos, which once festered
here, and a place of wild magic and strange natural
phenomena. At its centre lies Kharé, known affection-
ately as the Cityport of Traps.

City it certainly is, though a more disreputable,
scummy, violent, ramshackle excuse for a city you
could not imagine. Port? Yes— despite being close on a
hundred Jeagues from the stormy Kakhabad Sea,
Kharé is linked by the wide Jabaji River, which carries
boats, barges and even large ships all the way from the
Sea to Kharé itself, where they meet with other boats
bringing fish downstream from Lake Lumlé to the
north, And the traps? Well, unfortunately, these also
exist, in great numbers, They were introduced by
some of the more Lawful citizens in an attempt at
protection from the great many thieves and muggers
who infest the city, but the plan backfired somewhat,
for the Lawful citizens did not tell one another where
their own traps were! Now everyone moves about
carefully, sticking to parts of the city they know and
avoiding strange streets and alleys.

Beyond Kharé, there are the flat plains of the Bak-
lands, strange barren wastes where Nature‘s pro-
cesses are perverted and cantrolled by the powers of
Chaos, which seer to emanate from the land Itself!

Pecullar plans dwell everywhere streams bubble 9s
they boil or cre with slabs of floating le bzare
features wander its rocky wiernesses, Yeu vil
need all your Wels about you to cross such an
“unnatural place. Beyond the Baklands, the land ses
sharply to High Xamen, where the demonic Arch-
image hachis fortes. The heights are home to deadly
aenal races such as Bind Men and LifesStalers, bt if
you manage fo cross them you will ind youself n
ERuddiestone, the fst of the northern kingston,

‘THE LANDS OF THE NORTHERN
PLAINS

Ruddlestone is a small, rather peculiar place where
people of many diferent philosophies rob shoulders
trth one another. The main naling faction 35 the
Feipiousone, which haea decidedly miltary bento
because of the continual ears with neighbouring
Brice, It wae these wars which forced the people of
Riddlestone lo bulld the massive Demonkeep Out
poston the edge of the mountains, overooking the
fhaln approach to Drce near the Dagga River which
tacks the border Ie permanent home toa gaeison
fafa thousand warrior priests. At the other en of the
Kingdom ~ and diecly opposed to such warlike
longanzation~ there are the ports. Harabnab s peace
fal enough, home to all Lavful adventurers and
ssilors; but just dowa the cost les the Port of Crt,
haven to every pratefr ity nautical miles, who prey
constantly ontheshippiagofthecoast Ruddlestonels
‘strange land to combine such oppesites!

Pirates aso rid the coast from the distant Cty of
‘Mazes in Brice, The Kingdom of Brice is very ware,
perpetually disputing with surrounding lands the
extents of Hs shiting borders. It does this, quite
‘Simply, Because It has few natural resources ofits
‘own, Is dictatorial leaders keep the people occupied
In always preparing for war, conting their activity
around the capital, the Forbidden Fortes.

To Bee's west les Callantarla, once the most import
ant land in all the Olt Werld, al lana ith ach
Tstry. Ita hada turbulent past mostly because of
the warlike ambitions of Brice ad the inhabitants of
the Northlands), but has gradually settled down a
Ile Iscaptal, Royal Lene, home to many sages,
wo spend mch of thie time sifting thoi the ich,
{rchives of the ruling family’s Horses im search of
tore coherent information about the past of their
fontnent. Gallant is generally peeceful land of
peasint farmers and more weallhy townsfolk though
tistarbng things sil lurk on ts Border. The heights
ff the Witcooth Line, which divide i from
Fomphrey, and the Cragrock Peaks, which mark the
country’s nerthem border, are home to all kinds of
‘outlaws and stange sects, who may one day become
‘rong enough to threaten Gllataria sel

‘TheOld Worldisamoresetted andmorecivizedcon-
linen than ether Allansia or Khu, But there ae stil
many theetsluringinthe wilderareas,andKakhabad
asa wholeisas dangerous a place as you ar key to
findanywhereon Titan, Donatihik natalie viz:
aon ene the extreme peilofa land where Chaos
‘nce red and where it Uueatens to rule again!

‘THE WORLD OF TITAN 21

S

sin

‘in

22 TITAN = THE FIGHTING FANTASY WORLD

Khul, The Dark Continent

Steer a ship out of Pollua in Lendleland, and head
south-west by the light of the Dragon Star, Keep on
until it vanishes below the horizon, at about the same
time as the land behind you disappears, and you will
find yourself sailing in unfamiliar seas under foreign
stars. Stick true to your course, though whales and
dolphinas dance around your prow, and stranger
creatures rear out of the water to see how edible you
might be, before sinking with hardly a ripple, and in
pethaps sixty days or so you will sight land again. A
vast, mountainous coastline will grow nearer and
nearer until it towers over your frail craft, with no sign
of any inict or bay to case your journey. You must sail
around the coastline for two or three more days before
you will find somewhere to beach your craft and at last
set foot on Khul.

When the world was still forming, many millennia
before the first men set foot upon its surface, Khul and
Allansia were joined by a narrow land-bridge, which
later separated, as the two continents drifted apart, to
create a string of islands. Over the centuries much has
happened to the face of the world, and most of these
islands have now sunk beneath the waves, allowing
the ocean currents to grow stronger and stronger, and
creating the all but impassable Ocean of Tempests
which now separates Allansia from Khul. Many
legends and improbable sailors’ stories surround
attempts to cross to Khul, including hair-raising tales
of Sea Giants emerging from the water to ‘play’ with
boats in scaly hands the size of archery fields, and of
manta rays of even larger dimensions which skim
along the surface of the water, swouping above it for
short distances before gliding back into the water,
their mouths wide open as they dredge for fish and
other food — including unfortunate ships! Whatever
the real truth behind such stories, it is certain that few
sailors would ever risk their lives by trying to cross to
Khul from Allansia.

The Ocean of Serpents which divides Khul from the
Old World is a safer expanse of water, but since there
are few ocean-going sailors in those lands the journey
has rarely been attempted. Those who know of Khul's
existence hesitate before trying to cross the Serpent
Ocean, though - despite its name - it offers few
dangers lo an experienced seagoer. The crossing to
Khul becomes difficult only when you finally arrive at
your destination, for the eastern side of the continent
is rocky and mountainous, and the only true ports are
situated further around the coastline, on the north-
western and western coasts,

Those few Allansian scholars who know anything of
Khul's history or geography call it the Dark Continent,
though even fewer are able to state exactly why it is
called by such a name. In fact the name comes partly
from the physical make-up of the most settled parts,
where the rocks and earth are a very dark black colour,
and partly because of the tremendous wars against
Chaos which took place in the centre of Khul while
Allansia was in the bloodied grip of the War of the
Wizards. We will return to the War against Evil and
the Battle for Mankind later, when you will learn more
of the ancient history of this troubled continent. For
now, Jet it be said that any adventurer to Khul must
know of, and beware, the Wastes of Chaos and the
Battlegrounds.

THE WASTES OF CHAOS AND THE
BATTLEGROUNDS

The heart of the Dark Continent was once very dif-
ferent to what it is today. In ancient times it was a
rugged but fertile region, with pleasant valleys
between gentle mountain peaks, watered by fast-
flowing rivers which ran in all directions and carried
trade to the city-states on the coast. Great Evil and
Chaas festered in the mountains, however, and a vast
area of land at the heart of the continent was blighted
when wild magic was released as Good and Evil
clashed,

24 TITAN - THE FIGHTING FANTASY WORLD

The Wastes of Chaos are vast areas of ash and choking
dust, where life cannot sustain itself. Here and there
among the decay are founts of pure Chaos, like dis-
gusting warped oases, where the very fabric of Nature
is perverted by the stuff of Chaos as it spews into the
Earthly Plane. Palm trees the colour of blood twist and
writhe like living beings, while mindless, jelly-like
things how] in their shade; living flesh coloured any-
thing but pink or brown spouts from the ash as
wriggling human limbs, while mouths open in the
flesh and scream; everywhere Chaos spawns and dies
with frenetic abandon. It is said that the sun never
shows itself over the Wastes of Chaos ~ they are
covered by swirling clouds of grey dust which prevent
Nature from ever establishing a hold on the area again.

To the north-east of the Wastes, the ash plain peters
out into a barren, sandy heath, dotted with ruined
towers, walls and other military constructions which
culminate in the crumbling ruins of the decimated city
of Kabesh. Once the capital of the whole of northern
Khul, the city was besieged by the Forces of Chaos,
and finally pulled apart literally stone by stone. Now it
is inhabited by the ghosts of warriors and city-folk,
and also by small bands of Ores and Trolls led by evil
spell-casters who grub around in the ruins looking for
ways to resurrect the dead armies buried under the
Battlegrounds, and once again establish a reign of
Chaos over the whole of Khul,

XIMORAN AND THE KING'S
HIGHWAY

The inhabitants of the smal] kingdoms and city-states
around the edges of Khul are unaware of the storm-
Clouds which are once again gathering at the heart of
the continent. The most developed areas are along the
western coast, and clustered around the Inland Sea on
the far southern coastline. The city of Ximoran was
once home to the Shakista dynasty, a long line of
benevolent kings and queens who brought peace and
order to the entire western coast, though sometimes
more through force of arms than careful diplomacy.
They built a wide road, the King’s Highway. Although
in places it is little more than a dirt-track these days, it
can be followed south through fertile farmlands as far
as the small port of Kelther at the mouth of the River
Swordflow. To the north the road makes a wide sweep
east, away from the massive area of wild marshland
known to the local people as Scorpion Swamp, before
heading north to the ancient city of Djiretta, situated
on the unpleasant-sounding Coast of Sharks.

The whole area is still under the protection of the
tulers of Ximoran, though since the last king died
without leaving an heir over two hundred years ago it
has been under the rule of a body known as the
Council of Seven, made up of representatives sent
from each of the major settlements of the area -
Ximoran itself, Djiretta and Anghelm on the north
coast, the ports of Buruna, Kalima and Keither on the
west coast, and the small walled city of Neuburg on
the far southern edge of the civilized lands. The
Council has no real powers, though it does provide a
unified focus for the whole area, whose people would
probably hide Inside the walls of each town and city
without it.

THE SOUTHERN LANDS

About a hundred leagues south of Neuburg you may
find isolated settlements of short, swarthy humans,
who were supposedly the original inhabitants of the
lands right up to the Catsblood River, but who have
gradually been driven further and further south over
the last few centuries. They are crude, violent people,
divided into clans and tribes who are fiercely protec-
tive of whatever lands they manage to call their own.
Border disputes flare up from time to time, and they
raid villages and farmsteads, destroying animals and
crops and taking hostages and slaves, but swift action
by organized troops from Neuburg usually keeps
them from doing anything more dangerous.

Further south still, the land becomes more barren,
turning from scrubland to wind-lashed steppes,
which in turn descend to the edge of the cold Scythera
Desert which cuts a desolate swath across the con-
tincnt as far as the Inland Sea. A few tribes of brutish
Goblins live around the edge of the mysterlous (and
nearly unpronounceable!) Lake Mlubz, though they
are slowly dwindling in number under the combined
assault of the inhospitable land and their warlike
northern neighbours,

South-west of Lake Mlubz lies the abandoned city of
Zagoula, once the pride of Khu! but now empty and in
ruins. Destroyed during the initial stages of the War
against Evil, it is a terrifying place, shunned by all but
the most adventurous. Some ruined towers and battle
ments poke above the shifting sands, but most of the
city is now underground, and its streets are now
tunnels wandered by strange subterranean creatures
and a great many undead souls. Legend in the north

Las of great sees and forgotten wisdom tobe found
tried among its rune temples and palaces, ut fer
have had the courage to explore much of

(On the southernmost part ofthe west coast ie 0
‘more setiaments, Yaziel and Hyennish. Both were
once lourishing trading owns underthe protection
therulereofZagoul, but when that cy fellthey Were
wick 10 follow, overvhelmed by massed legions of
{Chaotic troops. Some humans survived, however,
‘overiooked when the armies of the enemy tured
impatiently to the north to asist at the sack of
Zagoula, and there ace small fortifd vilags on both
‘ses, perched precariously among the runs ofthe old
towne. Life for their Inabtants i hard, forthe land
‘hart fully recovered from theravages ofthe Challe
forces = which didnot jst buen the land, but also
emptied it of all Hfebearing, Goodness ~ but they
‘Sagal on as est they can,

‘THE INLAND SEA

‘The cold expanses ofthe desolate Sythera Desert are
home only to nomadic Lizard Men, and to small
roving bands of shaggy deseet Goblins, who make
"parade ais on the human setlements around the
ge of the pirstelnfested Inland Sea, which was
formed many aeons ago afer a massive earthquake
‘dropped the land by several hundred metre and the
sca rushed in fin the holo. The area around the
Sea i quite fertile, and 9 numberof smal city-states
have established themselves. Competition between
them, bein trade or war, is very flere, though
tmatirsraaly get out ofhand, The conniving riers of
‘Tak, Lagash, Maced and all the others seem to relish
‘hele postions, and setup endles alliances wih one
nother agains the rest, but then break one partner
hip and join another, turing voleny against their
previous alles with great relish. The waters of the
Inland Sen are svarming with pats and privateers,
and eos! trading ehipe only sll under the protection
‘of tls of warships.

‘The largest of the Inland Sea's cies is Kish, a dour
place which s fortified with immense walls to protect
Jtfrom the ware brbarins which dvellin the lands
tothe west The people of Kish danotreadily weleome
seangers to ther ety, though they sometimes offer
the highest pices to any merchant brave enough 10
approach them. At present Kish alled with Lagash
‘hu Maead ina waragsinet Shurrspak, ad the Inland
Sen is swarming with wargalleys’ battering one
ftother into ebmisson for the sake of afew trade
treaties.

HACHIMAN, THE ISOLATED
KINGDOM

‘WestoftheTaland Sea you wilfind only impenetrable
jungles, inhabited by cannibal pygmy Lizara Men and
folher doadly enemies of mankind. The vegetation
‘gradually sites up the footils ofan all but impen-
‘stable range of mountains which have never Been
ramedby themen who dwellon the Inland Sean the
"nivel tongue of those who dwell on theother side
‘of them, however, they ar called the Shios'l Moun-
Taine, The kingdom of Hachiman wich isin thelr

‘THE WORLD OF TITAN 25

shade compe cutoff om the et of Kh
Being and of reat ery and nati soos
intabtants hae never le any need to atempt to
tres the henvewscping pss whch sole het
tan nd sine thy te ot good slo, they have
‘Southern Seas. ‘ *

In their tolation the peopl of Hachiman have devel
peda very pecaliar culture, combining deep sprial
bolt vith aruling warrior cls which has developed
the most amaring hills in combut. The ruler of Hachl-
rman is known as the Shogun, who is lont over
‘numberof lessee nobles each of wham contolsone of
the smal baronies doted around the land. The ord-
‘ary lzens of Hachiman are peasants, id to their
feudal lord and master as surely as slaves. They ae
happy people, however, for the culture of ther Ine
(eaches hem tobe content lth thet lot and that heir
placeasfarmersisasimportant inthe scheme of things
fs that of thelr lords, Its perhaps reretable that
‘other, moe volentlands donot benefit fom the same
belt, though Titan would bea sad and sorry place it
all onds were much the same a5 one another ~ and
‘there would be lite need fr adventurers if that were
sol Perhaps we should offer up a prayer that such 2
thing never comes shout?

26 TITAN THE FIGHTING FANTASY WORLD

‘SHAKURU, CITY OF BEGGARS
‘Onthe south-western edge ofthe Scythera Desert there sits th foulest city known to man Called Shak,
‘His home ony tothe Beggar King, Holagar the Wretched, and his plagueviddencitzens. Cast out by the
restofthe world, they drift the ity in their ones and 1woa though noone quite knows how they cross the
“tom-blown oceans where others canno), to joi thei flow outcasts. The beggars trade with the dese
Goblins andthe nomadic Lizard Men, whom ll humans look sevoling, and raid barbarian setlements
rest of Kit, alg food and saves,

Sakura itself i itte more than 8 masave ple of debris and ratinfoted parboge, perpetually cllpsing
and being rebuilt by its inabltants In the rckety temples ofthe city the beggars offer up prac to Disease
‘hd Decay, their patrons and spintual lord, by breeding rats and Mls and releasing them to serve eit
ode by spreading unholy diseases across the world

The Skies of Titan

How many people on Titan neverlookatthe nlght sky
‘and wonder about those ghmmering candles inthe
heavens? More learned types, the astronomers,
boleve that the pinpoints flight are nothing less than
bother suns, possibly even dled by planets much ike
four own! This is such an utladish concept that it
tay Seem completely stupid to you, but the eared

stargazers say that mathematics proves their point —
though what a few numbers have to do with the
homes of the geds only they know.

Hoyever that may be, the skies overhead are packed
‘with stars and other celestial phenemnena. In the dit
ferent lands diferent names have been given and

constlations picked out, butinmastlands he people
{emly belivethat the stars represent theforms, deeds
‘or domains of thee patron dete. See the too sky
‘charts hete for examples ofthe forme the stars are sid
tote,

‘The planet is It during the day by the bright yellow
fun. 'At right, however, the moon shines lke a cold
‘rey lane ae cls the sleeping wort, Like the
Sar, the moon is ealled by many names, but every
‘ture surprisingly believest tobe male. The swamp
‘vselling peoples of south-east Alls know it 38
‘Kuran, the cild of Asramura the sum goddese, Fur
ther noth the sinister Darkside Eves know the sun
‘only as Bretin’s Bane, after a legendary hero oftheir
ace who was caught by a Wood Ells arvow ater
foolish venturing above ground daring the daylight
hours;fo them the moon is Til, the Silent Guardian,
who they telleve watches over and protects thes
‘when they hunt under his wan ight

Insone puts ofthe world where the Elemental Planes
‘neroach to greatly upon the Earthly Pane, eddies of
{rent magleal poser srl across the face ofthe land,
8nd all the Laws of Nature are suspended, In the
Baldands, the wildedands at the centre of Chaos
tainted Kahabad, ii aaid that day and night never
follow each other at equal intervals. At some times
‘here, expecally in sping when magical energy is at
Sts pea, the sn appears never to set in the western
sky for weeks on end, though in other parts ofthe
‘world the skies behave as normally a ever, For
‘reasons such as this, it eannot be stressed too highly
hove dangerous it sto venture into the Baklands and
‘other such area without very good reason!

HISTORY AND LEGEND 27

HISTORY AND LEGEND

So that is the world of Titan, in all its tarnished glory.
But how did it come to be this way? What of its history,
its heroes, myths and legends? All we can do is repeat
the words of the legendary mystic and scholar Raljak
Lying-Jackal, who always started his books with the
words, ‘Read on, and all will be revealed in time...”

In the Beginning

But where shall we start? In the course of our studies
for this book, we have drawn on the combined know-
ledge of the wisest sages of the three continents. As a
result, we have collected much information that dupli-
cates, contradicts or ignores other material. [f we had
given in to our Initial urges, simply to tell all that we
heard, this book would be ten times the size it is, and
we would still be writing it! Therefore, what we have
donc is chosen the tales, myths and legends which, in
our judgement, offer the clearest picture of the past of
this world. There is much that we have omitted —
though we were loath to doso—and many things have
been glossed over. The tale of King Aradax and the
Scared Donkey, the legend of Ruritag Half-Ore, the
story of the Fall of the Savage Innocents, and many
others, must all wait for another book.

But where shall we start? Let us start at the beginning,
with the creation of Titan as taught by the priests of

rar)

e a | cubs
oe

los
1 le fl ih hil

Lendleland and Gallantaria. This account is couched
in very mythical terms, and it seems likely that much
of it was initially invented to explain the unexplainable
to the primitive peoples of prehistory.

In the days before Time had been found by the trick-
ster god, Logaan, and unleashed on to the world by
Death, the gods sat or lounged around the great palace
of the Celestial Court. There were a preat many godsin
those days, hundreds of them, and cach was different.
Moreover, each god was served by a host of lesser
beings, demigods or ‘lesser gods’, who also had their
own personalities and their own tasks to perform.
And they were bored with their lives. There were no
years, months or days, and no one got any older and
no one died, but many were being born all the time.
And nothing ever happened that was very interesting.

All the higher gods and goddesses had magical
powers, so that they could do anything they wished.
But even though they were gods few of them had
much imagination, and they soon got tired of doing
the same things all the time, Truc, some deities
seemed to keep themselves occupied: black Death and
his brothers, Diseases and Decay had great fun going
around dissembling gods and demigods into their
component parts, and the other gods had to come
along and put their friends back together again, But
even this became boring in time, no matter how
spectacularly Death and his cohorts presented their
peculiar entertainment.

28 TITAN ~ THE FIGHTING FANTASY WORLD

‘One day, however, the goddess known 25 Thro was
‘igging with her sister Galana in their luscious
flens. (These gardens, incdentlly, wore com-
Pletely different from the ‘goedens’ of Tian. They
‘were places of great beauty, where glowing cystals
4nd light-beams grew, tothe delight ofthe gods and
{goddesses cf the pala) She had wansformed herhand
Into the shape ofa spade, and was slowly scraping 3
hale nthe sll fr a massive blue-green crystal which
she wished to plant when sheuneatheda large limp
fof magic si, which vibrated and pled with Ie
‘Throffran to her sister Galana, and shoved her the
‘ny she knew just ohat they should do with

“Thro and Galana tok the cay to thle father Titan,
who divided iin wo and then fshioncd and worked
tone half ith his ands unl twas perfectly round
‘And Tian took his creation, and set it among the
Plans, so that everyone could see. The gods ofthe
(Court were amazed by thisnew des, and they wanted
foknow snore aboutit But Death and his brothers did
‘at come to look, for they thought it was going tobe
just another tedious diversion which would soon pale
Into insignificance

Now Tita divide the other halfofthe clay up among,
the greater Gods. Hydana, husband te Toff, made
patterns on the sphere, which were water. Theoft
herselfput downa large mass of day, which sheclled
land. Galan fashioned wees, lowers and plans from
the cay and planted them on the and. Andoneby one
‘he gods fled up to Titan, and were allowed to fake 3
piace ofthe magical stuff and ena creatures a heir
fen age, which were place on his creation, which
wae called Titan afler him, Beautful Glantanka
Alancedseound it he light of her faceiluminating it
‘witha golden glow, and she became the sun. She was
followed by hr brother, who danced in er wake, and
became the moon. But whilethe gods were cocbrating
their new cretion, Death siole some of the clay,
secretingitintheblack folds ofhis oakbefor ging
away agin

LOGAAN’S CREATION

Soon the eration was buzzing with creatures of all
shapes and sizes, And the gods walked on the new
‘World and played with their creations, Hydans swam
inthe waters he had made, playing withthe fish and
the other creatures ofthe deep which ety an his
fellows had erated. On the and, Toff, alana and
the other ceators danced and played, delighting in
‘the beauty ofthe things they had made, They gave
names io everything they had made, andlaughedand
‘Were happy. Titan looked down upon itll, and was
very pleased. But before him sepped the god Togzan,
‘Whom Wwe know nov as the Talekster. He had been
“issembled by Desthand histrothers atthe time Titan
‘was giving outlay, but now he wanted to take his
turn. Titan had Kept hack some day, forhe wasa wise
‘od, and gavea ite of what remained to Logean,

‘And Logaen went dovn to thenew world, and looked
‘at what had been made fo fr. None oft wa to his
tase andhedecided tomakeanentiely new shape It
had just two legs, with a pair of arms higher up its
body, and it was tll and thin. But to make it speci
Logaantooka piece ofhimsel, and placed tinside the
hese of his creation, and then breathed overt osetit
sing. And he called it Mat

‘THE ORIGINS OF THE GODS

‘The question of who made the gods ofthe Celestial Court has vexed religous men and women fom the
avo time. Therace of humans who use, before thelr cles were destayedinthe Warofthe Wizards, t0
‘dwell inthe aea now marked by the barren easter coast ofthe Flatlands, lft ecords among thelr ruins
‘which shove that they Blleved the gods were made by a rio of primal beings, They called the three Asha,
lim and Vah, crudely ranslated a5 Light, Daskand Life, and bellaved that a combination ofthe powers of
slltheee helped shape the Celestial Court. The stange peoples who dwelt onthe Islet of the Dawn before
the eruption ofthe volcano that sank most of them beneath the waters believed that ruling over the Court
there was a single god grenter than all he others, who fashloned the gods and let them ceate their own
‘world They called han Am, which meant the First, and they believe that shen they ded they would
‘send to the henvenstojoin him.

HISTORY AND LEGEND 25

‘Various cultareshave thee own vad

the storm god (who i alo Known as Kukulak),

VARIATIONS ON THE CREATION MYTH

son ths story. To the people of ancient Arantis, then raledoverby
‘dynasty of powerful warorqueens, Logaan gave isbrsinto Woman, who wos created fist, andhen his
hye to Man, Otheraceshave believed that both creatures were made together and that fistManand ist
‘Woman shared head and heart with Logaan. Ther ae alo some religions which believed that tas ot
‘Logaan (usually avery feoish goin human mythology), buta much more admlabledety such s Sukh

{A rae imaginative warlock once tried to argue thet everything was in fact ceated by Desth and his
brothers, bothis theories were rejected because they explained too much af what was wrongin the word

‘THE CREATION OF THE OTHER RACES

‘When the other gods and goddesses saw Lognan’s
‘peaton, they laughed hearty at it, fori looked very
peculiar ait walked alongon its two spiny leg. But
they saw tig in the earth an pul up rocks, and use
{he soeke to cu Uough tees, and use the tees 10
‘make ashelter from thewater which Hydanns brother
Sul was csting on the wotld, And they sa it ake
itsrocs,andstrke them together, and make alight as
brightas heavenly Glatanka herself which gave out
hat and kept the cll winds of Pangaraavay. The
gods saw that the creature could think ke they could,
ould reason and creat, and they wondered where it
bad come rom

‘When Logasn told then he had put bit of haself
into the creature, the gods were horrified! Many of
them went back to their creations, shocked that a god
had motiated himself. Only Glona, Thvoffand Titan
stayed to comumiserate with poor, folsh Logaan for
Secrely they were very intrested in lacing more
About his creation, They asked him to show them how
he had made his ‘Man’, and he did so by making
another. But he had already sed up that piece of
Fhimsif which he had placed in the head of Man, ane
sohe placed another par of inselfin the ear of his
second creation, breathed upon it until it awoke, and
called Woman,

‘The Uhee delties were impressed, and decided to
make theic own creatures slong similar lines. Tian
tooka part ofhisstrngthand size and transformed it
{nto Glan. Thyoff took a part of her soeky shin and
‘made the first Dwar. And Galina took he grace and
hherknowledge, and made the st EM They sot heir
cestures on the face ofthe word, and zoired tothe
palace of the Celestial Court to wate them multiply
Sid spread across the world alongside Man.

‘This perlodisknownas theGoatime,andit was oneof
reat peace and happiness for the races af men,
‘wars, Elves and Giants. They ved together at ist,
but peadually divided as thele numbers became
greater, each taking one pat ofthe veorld for thelr
‘wn, Man took the plains, Elves the forest, Dwar
{hells and Giants the mountains, They dweltin ne
‘lies and prospered, and grew strong and healhy
‘They made strange tools and weapons, ith which fo
catch other creatures for thes fod, and learnt how to
tse the natural magic inherent nthe earth all under
the watchful eyes of thelr patron gods. During the
day, golden Glantanka danced across the heavens,
and at night the moon would castitsilvery ight upon
the word

DEATH WALKS ON TITAN

But one night, Death and his brothers caught hold of
the moon, which dd not ee over Titan that night. In,
the darkness, the el gods went among the races of
men, Divarf, Elves and Giants, and did’ much
damage, They eet dak cestures onthe world, made
from the stolen day and tainted by ther evil minds
they made them creatures of Chace. Marga, the
homed snake, slthered into the world, accompanied
by Athallogen the spider king, Baslisk the lizard,
Gargoyle and the Behemoth, a giganc sea monster
‘Thal same night, the eresture known as Hashak the
Creator planted his ovin creatures the Ores, in the
shadows and comers of the wold, where they bred
and thrived inthe darkness

‘When moming came, Glantanka began her dance
across the face of the world again, but looking down
the could eee only thle bisck clouds, which hid
‘eats foul estes from the sight ofthe gods. By
the mile of the day, the gods wore despatang of the
fate of thelr creature, and pondering whether they
should risk journeying down to the surface of Titan
investigate, when Death and all hs supporters fled
ino the Celestil Court. With Death werehisbrothets,
Disease and Decay, but also a numberof minor gods
such as Slang and Tani, and a gren force of demi
ods, who were ugly and bestia to look upon
Between them they caried a large sack, in which a
‘numberof object writhed and vrigged, Death spoke
to the stunned gods gathered thre, aching ler in
his voice and abattomles pit inhi night-blck ees,

‘My dear friends’ Death began. ‘My dese frends, 1
have watched your lnughable attempts at creation
with great amusement and enjoyment. The une has
come, however, to show you hove it shouldbe done,
Follow me...’ Saying this, Death transported the
sods to the susface of Tan, amid gasps of shock and
indignant protests. Looking around them, the gods
‘oul sce only darkness and smoke, but when Death
raised his hands i lifed, 10 reveal a landscape of
‘image and utter devastation, The ielss bodies of
‘men and animals lay everywhere, and feasting on
‘hele corpses were the ful creations of dest.

‘Shaking the wriggling simpleton Logaan out of the
sick, Death continued his speech: This. af
‘reafure isa complete fool, but he can be very wsefal
Dow and again. While nosing about one of the
forthest Panes, he came across something strange, 2
eve god, whe possesses a power which has not been
Inard of before. Gods and goddesses, I ive you
Timer

30 TITAN — THE FIGHTING FANTASY WORLD

At that the sack was upended a second time, and a
repulsive figure fell out. As it cowered in front of the
assembled gods, it seemed to change form. First it was
young and smooth, like a new-born child, then it was
middle-aged and rough, before changing again into a
wrinkled old man. As it changed from one to the next,
the god Decay began to laugh deeply, while Death
outlined his terms;

‘T want this miserable little creature of yours, all of it,
and you are going to give it to me. Otherwise 1 shall
release Time into the universe, and everything shall
become mortal, and eventually die. Time has this
power, for he represents the replacement of every:
thing that was by everything that is to come. If Time is
released there will be no more immortality, and even
the gods will be susceptible to my power — they will be
able to die!’ As one, the gods said, ‘No! This shall not
bel’ — at which Death and his forces turned and
stormed from the room. The First Battle was about to
begin.

THE FIRST BATTLE

Death and his forces of evil retired to one of the Outer
Planes, where they readied themselves for battle. The
evil gods had not been idle while waiting for the others
to react to their assault on the world, and they had
created many more creatures of Chaos, which they
formed into a gibbering, writhing army, and marched
on the Celestial Court. When they arrived, however,
they found it completely empty, for the other gods had
gone down to Titan to pull together the Forces of Good
for the battle to come,

At last the two sides faced each other across a wide,
grassy plain. On one side were the Forces of Death, led
by the unholy god and his twin brothers, wrapped in
their black robes, Alongside and behind them were

snakes, wolves, basilisks, spiders and a great many
formless creatures, revolting slimy beings which con-
tinually sprouted parts of other beings in cruel mock-
ery of the creations of the Lawful gods. Flying above
the army was a cloud of bats, vultures and other
creatures which had been tainted by Death's touch. A
large horde of Orcs, Trolls and Goblins stood ready for
battle, And at the rear were the demigods, including
the repulsive Sith, Ishtra, Myurr, Relem and Vradna.
They had dressed themselves in hard steel armour
forged especially for the battle, and they formed them-
selves intoa square around Time. The black banners of
Death's army bore no motif.

Facing them were the Forces of Good, led by a van-
guard of the greater gods, including Titan, Throff,
Sukh and many others. Even gentle Galana was with
them, veiled so that none should see the fear in her
eyes. Ina long line to either side were soldiers from all
four races, armed and ready for battle. Eagles and
ather birds of prey, led by the Hawklord himself,
swooped above them, crying out warnings to their
opponents in anticipation of the coming hunt, There
were other creatures too — centaurs, lions, tigers, and
many which exist no longer, Bringing up the rear were
host of gleaming golden Dragons, Glantanka’s own
creations, prepared especially for the battle and led by
Kilanirax, once the sun goddess’s servant, but now
Dragon king.

From the ranks of the evil armies, a skeletal warrior
stepped forward, and blew one harsh, discordant note
on a horn; and the battle began, The streaming Forces
of Evil swept howling down on the thin line of thelr
enemy, while magic burst in the air above them. The
line of Dwarfs, men, Elves and Giants held, and they
returned with an assault of their own, but heavy
casualties were sustained by both sides. More attacks
were made; again and again the armies clashed.

Bodies were fling everywhere and the godsof Good
‘were looking at one another in despot. Screaming in
lange, Death and his brothers gathered their powers
fn let thunderbolt fy al the gods opposite ter. It
struck Throf,buming her skin trnbly, But was
answered with anctherbolt rom her ister alana the
Dragon Ring Kilanirax and the sun goddess Clan
lanka. The bolt fe seaght through the heac ofthe
‘eularmls, passing dough the creatures of darkness
land Chaor asf they vere not there, just athe sun
‘chases away shadows, just as strength and goodness
wl always ut through the worst excesses of El. Ik
Struck Time and blew him apart, with a thunderelap
that reverbersted across the cosmos, The dark gods
were surrounded; without Time they were powerless
totight backand thes forces fed in dir. But Time
‘ap satteredtoughout the world ofan and thus
{lite peoples are morta, hile the gods ate not

onde

HISTORY AND LEGEND

Tian, as spokesman forthe gods, asked for the eap-
tured Dark Lords tobe ile, but Thro pleaded for
themonlytobecsild, for ling them would bean act
{fF An so the Dark Lords an theleminions were
banished into the Void, where they could do litle
harm. And the gods left dhe surface of Titan, feeling
shamed that they had already brought eo much pain
‘nd sulfering to thelr beautiful creation. Now they
Took down on the planet from the sky every night, for
‘ver frozen asthestarsin the poses they tok up wile
Luying lo protect the wold fom the effets of Time,
‘They will never grow od fr they are gods, but now
mortal beings wil always age and dle, afer thir
allotted span. Some race are protected by the gods,
‘who help them stay alive for more than thelrtime, but
inthe end al will goto thelr graves

32 TITAN - THE FIGHTING FANTASY WORLD

The Time of Heroes

After the gods had departed from the world in the
aftermath of the First Battle, the races returned, bat-
tered but unbowed, to their respective homelands. At
about this time, writing was first invented, and a
number of puzzling records have survived, painted on
fragments of pattery and stamped on sheets of metal.

For many hundreds of years, scholars have been
digging such things out of the ruins of the ancient
cities of the world, and they have begun to work out
what they actually say in the peculiar languages of the
planet's first civilized peoples.

Now that the gods kept their distance from earthly
affairs, the first human heroes began to make their
names known. The names of kings, warriors and
magicians, including vague references to people like
King Harar of Granat, Birel Brother-slayer and Zergoul
Whitelightning, begin to figure strongly in these
ancient writings, though there is still a good deal of
religious writing as well.

THE UNITED CONTINENT

At this time, all the lands of the world were still joined
together into one massive continent, which these early
records call Irritaria. It was not until almost a thousand
years after the beginning of Time that they were
divided in the drowning of Atlantis, by which time the
kingdoms of the world had risen and declined and
risen again. But in those early years, there were few
such kingdoms. Men regressed from the Golden Age
of the utopian cities they had enjoyed under the
patronage of the gods, and now they struggled to
survive in competition with the teeming Orcs, Trolls,
Goblins and {after a few hundred years) the first foul
Chaotic Ogres,

The Dwarfs had slipped away to their underground
domains, where they were digging ever deeper into
the earth in search of riches, In ancient mountains in
the far north of Irritaria, the Dwarf lord, Hangahar
Goldseeker, was making the first tentative bores
which would eventually tur into the enormous un-
dying city of Fangthane, immortal home of the Dwarf

people.

The Elves, meanwhile, had returned to their beloved
forests, and were investigating their own powers of
magic and intellect. The first of the great Elven
sorcerers, remembered only as the While Lord, was
communing with Galana at the heart of the One

Forest, delving deep into the fundamental forces of
magic and ritual. The One Forest, which stretched
right across the continent at that time, was the home of
the greatest number of Elves the world has ever seen:
their decline has always been in direct relation to the
destruction of their forest homes.

THE TALE OF THE HALFHAND CHIEFS

But it was the humans on whom those carly archivists
concentrated, The greatest heroes of the time were a
pair of brothers, Rerek and Myzar Halfhand, who cut
a bloody swath through the western lands as leaders
of a tribe of horse-riding nomads. Their battles with
the Orcs of that region are remembered by us in the
form of two folk-songs, though the minstrels of today
who sing ‘Riding with Halfhand’ or ‘Tie Down the
Warrior’ do not realize it!

They had ridden with their tribe across over two
thousand leagues of barren grassland, in search of a
fertile land in which to settle, But when they came
across @ very pleasant area of gentle hills and valleys
overlooking the endless ocean, they found it teeming
with Orcs, who were taking advantage of the fertility
of the area. The tribe was despondent after its long
trek, and immediately engaged the Orcs in pitched
battle! Surprisingly, the Orcs fought back with great
ferocity, The area was worth defending, certainly, but
more importantly there was the principle involved —
humans should not be allowed to ride around stealing
other people's lands, like spoilt children who cry every
time they see something they want.

The running battles against the Orcs continued for
around twenty-five ycars, with both sides slowly chip-
ping away at each other. Many heroic confrontations
took place, and the names of the Halfhand brothers
became known to humans across many parts of the
continent. Their dramatic ambushes, the rescue of
their kidnapped children from the Orcs’ cooking-pots
and the burning of the Orcs’ major town were sung
about from one side of the world to the other, and the
numbers of the humans were swelled as wartiors
flocked to join them. Eventually, the sheer persistence
of the human invaders drove the Orcs into a complex
of caves in the hills, where every one of them starved
to death in three months! It is a lesson to us all to reflect
that it was very definitely the humans who were in the
wrong in this case, but it is also the humans who are
celebrated as the herocs!

.
’
é
“, ' .
'
‘ “a
py
+
—
ssh!
j
2)
i=
ei. 4
co ty.
af
~“ fy
> ;

5)

tre.

THE SPLITTING OF THE LANDS

Gradually, the wandering tribes began to settle down
throughout the continent, for agriculture took over
from hunting as the main source of food and the
distant lands were explored and found to be fertile,
Slowly but surely, mankind gathered itself together
into small villages, which grew into towns, and then
into small cities, and finally into nations. Trade began,
and nation communicated with nation. But at the
same time, nation fought with nation —as is the way of
humans who compete for the best things, be they
land, precious metals or whatever, It was at this time
that it is believed that the tyrant Faramos XXill—- really
the Demon Prince Myurr ~ rose in Atlantis, which was
promptly sunk beneath the waves by the combined
actions of the outraged gods. Unfortunately, very little
information has ever been discovered about this time,

HISTORY AND LEGEND 33

for most contemporary records seem deliberately to
have blotted the whole epoch from their memories. It
is as if the whole world wished to forget whatever
atrocities the people of Atlantis had inflicted. For what
few details we have managed to glean of this time, you
should read the later section on the underwater king-
doms of Titan, which gives more background to this
calaclysmic event.

As penance for the crazed actions of the Atlanteans,
the gods apparently split the lands and formed the
three continents. Such drastic action cost the lives of
many beings and creatures, as gigantic waves flooded
the coastal regions while the landmasses were driven
to their new resting-places. The One Forest of the
Elves was split into many parts, and the long, slow
decline of the Elven peoples began. Sections of the
One Forest still survive in some lands, such as the
enormous Forests of Night near present-day Sardath
in north-east Allansia, and around Lake Nekros in
Khul, but they are a pale shadow of the magnificent,
continent-spanning wall of greenery that the One
Forest must have been.

The Rise of Civilization

After the long, slow haul to civilization, the cataclysm
Surrounding the splitting of the continents set
mankind back at least five hundred years. When the
blackened skies had finally cleared and the waters had
receded, man found himself scattered across the
globe. The only cities which had not been tumed to
ruins by the wrath of the gods were those built into
mountains by Dwarfs. But slowly, by degrees,
mankind began to organize again.

The first major settlements in the new lands began to
grow about 350-400 years after the sinking of Atlantis,
on the coasts of all three continents; again, small}
villages turned into towns, and towns eventually
became cities and then states. The central eastern
coastline of Khul was home to a thriving collection of
small trading towns, which eventually began gather-
ing themselves into a unified state known as Klarash
around the year 1510 oT (or Old Time). On the shores
of the Onyx Sea, in what is now Gallantaria in the Old
World, Orjan the Builder started gathering his tribe
around him and building a town. And along the edges
of Allansia, a few states began to establish their power;
the city of Vynheim, which still exists, was founded as
a small fishing settlement in 1530 by the father of the
legendary northern hero, Bjorngrim Giant-slayer.

BJORNGRIM OF VYNHEIM

Bjormgrim Bjorngrimsson was a typical northman -
large, broad-shouldered and red-haired, and with a
lust for strong ale and honourable battle. On the death
of his father in 1583 07, he became chief of a thnving
port, which traded with other settlements further
down the treacherous coast and, across what was then
called the Witch Sea, with the people who dwelt on the
string of islands known as the Giant's Teeth, The
Witch Sea was a very dangerous place, fog-bound in
{34 TITAN ~ THE FIGHTING FANTASY WORLD

the gutnmer and fl of deadly eebergs in
{the people of Vynhcim believed it was haunted bythe
ghosts ofthose mariners who hadbeen wrecked there,
fnd who stil wailed forlorn Alle four boats were
Tostina month, the people of Vyniheim became afaid,
and would not Set sll

So was upto thei leader, Bjomgrim, to prove both
his bravery and the safty’ of the taters. He set out
Single handed ina small ketch, The Lusty Duar, ether
to prove that there was nothing tobe afraid of or 0
face upto whatever was haunting the Witch Sea. He
felled or eight days, being blown north towards the
Ieeberg. Stats y fierce gales. The temperature
<doppedandiccks formed onthe boot, wl ebergs
bobbed around him, bat the northman kept his ler
Stoight, knowing that his gods would soe him
thvough, Ontheninth day afogelosed in, and omits
depths he heaeda wailing, moaning sound. Suddenly
‘sheart-stoppingly allSea Glan rose out ofthe waters
wrth a cash of grinding ie, and reached out forthe
boat with one masslve green hand. Bjomgri grited
‘ls teeth, muttered 4 hasly curse, and made eady
twithhis xe, Butas the hand scooped down, esas
beter plan

His heart in his mouth, he eapt on tothe hand and
Kept on running. Although the Glant was covered
swith ce, ts skin was also pitted and gave the north
tan the grip he needed to reach the lane shouldes
‘There he paused fora split second, gazing up sno the
‘eyes which ogarded him wth an intelligences slow
helt sure he could heart creaking, before swinging
2 cola blove atthe Sen Giant's neck, The axe bit
deep, anda gush of feezing Blood knocked Bjorgrim
bsckvards, down into the water. When he surfaced
‘gsi, fe was only 2 fee armclengths from his boa,
‘which he pled himself into justas the Giant's bain
‘sceived the message from its body that twas dead,
Sa tht should fall over Ten days Ite, Bjorngri

GGant-sayor sailed into Vynheim Sound, towing the
Body of the Sea Giant behind hin. The people of
‘Vymheim bestowed his nickname upon him immed
ately, and also renamed the Wite’s Sea, s0 that even
‘ow itis known as Bomgim’s Sa.

‘THE AGE OF WIZARDS

Around the year 1680, the continent now known as
Allansia was divided up into a large numberof peace
ful kingdoms and principalities, The Ingest of these
was Allasa self which stetched from the White
‘water River as far north a the River Kok. Is capt
Corsepals, was a wide, well-constructed iypert,
which managed tobe both aseat of culturesnd.a pace
fof protection against the tbes of Ores and other
Tnunan ces which stil rampoged agound the
northern plnins. Ruling over Carsepolis at this time
‘was the Dynasty of Swords, founded in 160 by King
CCoros Sword-bearer, and now represented by Ms
grandson Cores Il (also known, i appears, a the
Gath-breaker, though no secords that we have seen
Indicate why or how the young king acquired such 3
damning name),

rom the River Kok north and ent the country of
GGoldoran gan a far atthe norther edge ofthe Fat-
Jands (which even jn those days were desolate and
primitive, home any to the superstious builders of
Sone monuments and to nomads), South of the
Whitewater River, the Souther Pains wore cess
‘crossed withthe wails of merchant and adventure,
who travelled between the small interior town of
Salamon andthe two walled ctystates of Ctsver
and Ballash, which ay in the middle ofthe plains and
‘om the cost respectively, The Desert of Sal, othe
South of the plains, was much smaller then, and
fpparenlly less dangerous too. There were several
small ites castredafong the southern extent of the
CCraggen Mountains, where you will now find only a
{eve villages om the rarely sed road between Warp
stone and Wolllown, Merchants trvelled far and
Wide across the continent in search of new maskel,
fd retumed to the northern lands with fragrant ols
nd spices, ad als ofthe exotic easter an which
at that time ccd the Seu of Pearls and the Shabok
Penins,

Further south, the city of Kaynlesh-Ma, founded
around 1585 or asa small port at the mouth of the
River Els and now nominal apital ofthe county of
‘Aran, was growing in prominence, and wade tas
just being started with the tiny ctypor of Halak (its
partner Rimon stated 33 an overspl for Halk 10
Funded years late) and the county of Alana and
Sts neighbours. Kaynlesh-Ma, however, was a very
dlferent plac from the northern cysts, frit was
Frome to an increasing numberof sorcerers

[ighmnapicat that time ens very mach he province of
the Elves, who had a long tation of its use and
ples. By nove, however, the Elves had withdraim
Into their forest, and thei igh sorcerers were never
sen by any but the very Iuekest humans and the
Uunluckist Ores, What most people thought of when
magic was mentioned were the tricks of hedge:
‘wizards and old women for keeping fleas off o for

Ce _____ _____ ©
HISTORY AND LEGEND 3

making village maidens fll in love with you. The
shamans ofthe Ores and Goblins sl practiced their
‘magi, but it was so warped and perverted from the
pure beauty ofthe original that if sould nat be con
Sidered i the same context. The magie of Ore sha
mans tended, and stil tend, to bea very rpetive
je of eanjuring up the spits of ancestors ask for
{uiance forth future, and the casing of lick spells
Bofore bate, all ted tp with a geet deal of very
tedious mamboumbe

Jn the depths of Aramis, a number of scl
Aiscoveed an ancient temple, pazporsing

the eavbest ages of history. twas hau

spas of a to of ancient sorcerers who
appeared on the Eth Plane becruse they
decided i was time tht the world knew of seers
gain, The scholars, who ~ the histones ‘ellos —
‘umibered five, but who obviously didnot have very
‘memorable names, mmesnely leapt at the chance
leaming secrets which had been lost fo mankind for
many millennia. They refubished the temples
‘Aranath, a the place was known, and bogsn the slow
task of learning the deepest secrets of high magic. Ac
the sorcerers gree more ane more engrossed in thet
studies, they wore commanded to travel the earth
acquiring knowledge ar he temple and teaching test
Shs as they went

‘Thisbeganin the 16905, andy 1712 thenoted sorcerer
Eridanss had artived in Salamonis and founded the
schoolofmagicbused tthe centre of the neat Forest
ef Yor (which in those dayestetched fon the Vale of
Willow to the very fringes of Darkiwod). Wizardry
became a much-zespeted profession, a: every able
rman in the land ted to better King Salamon by
sponsoring a greatr sorcerer. Several schools of wiz
ardry wore founded, in Careepois and in Gar-
Goldoran,thecapitalityofGeldoran, end thesirover
the northern lands was always fll of satxiding
sorcerers and the fash of magi!

‘Tere were wars in those days, of couse for Were are
wars aeherever man hoards gold and other posses:
Sons and keeps them away from other men. But vith
theadventof court soreres, a good deal of bloodshed
‘was avoied by sending them away o desolate moors
and making them ight a ducl, with appropriate
penalties Being incurred by the county athe lose,
Moreover, the threats of Ozcs and Goblins receded for
frightening resistance In the
‘who Based vay with
cul great holes though their rankel For
2 while atleast, Orcs were reduced 10 snes
Through sted countries at ight, for fear fata

o
the allenions ofthe sorcerers wh led the armies of
Allens,

{36 TITAN ~ THE FIGHTING FANTASY WORLD

‘THE CITY-STATES OF THE OLD
WORLD

While sotcerous powers were gromingin prominence
in Allansia, fr across the Wester Ocean other things
‘wetehappening, The Old World has always been far
‘move cvzedcantinent than either Allasia or Khu,
‘hich con in part be put dows tothe fect that there
have, in recent years, been few wars catelysmie
‘enough ose thes of zation back a al

‘As the darkened skies created in the destin of
‘Atlantis slovely begun to cen, the vaviod peoples of
the Old World were already beginning fo settle down,
‘a ake the ist tentative steps onthe rond towards
‘lization, Before the continents had been spitby the
godsas penancefer the evi of Atlantis, the peoples of
fhe one continent, which we ell Istaria, wandered
farand wie, bringing some uniformity io every land
‘Ate the split, the sare people could sill be found on
‘sch coninent, so that there were horse-noinads on
the Flthnds of Allansin and in thecorrespondingaren
‘on the other side ofthe Ocean of Serpents the plains
‘of Lendl.

‘ut gradually the many peoples began changing, and
slffernt lands produced thee owe cultures. Icated
fiom the athe fo continents, the Old World devel
‘oped strange, rather quiky series of cultures, very
‘ferent from thore of Kho and Allansa, whic,
‘ue, aze diferent from each other,

At the cente of the Old World there are the nearly
‘uncressable heights of Meuistatia, which have meant
that man has tended to salle on the coastal plains
around them. The frst major settlements we have
records of were on the coat of the Onyx Sea. [8
1GD0r, the character every Gallantaran schooled
nove ag Orjan the Builder brought his tribe down,
‘eross the plans from the southern highlands they
fad roamed for many hundreds of years, and began
balling small vilage where two rivers joined. He
tale # Lendl, an old mountain’ word for at
Plaine, which deserted the countryside around the
Tallage very well Orjan’s people found other stall
villages on the plains, inate by men and women
‘much ike themselves, Trading began, a slovely the
Willages greur Into stall walled towns. Alor his
fathers death i 64, Oxjan's son, Regulus the
Unifle, tok over the leadership of Lendle. As the
prosperity of the region grew in leaps and bounds,
ore and more settlements began to grove in the
Shadow of Lendle, untl, in 1498, 2 treaty between
‘ightof the largest towns crested the nation of Calla
{ara lsruler was Regulus, ands capital was Lendle
‘or, more propery nts, Royal Lendl

Gallantara grew quickly under the inspired teader-
ship of Regus. His warriors browght the Benes of
Insrule to neighbouring lands, and slowly but surely
the borders moved Bock as ater owns and villages
realized the benefits of belonging to Gallataia. Ga
Tantra spread northwards, bringing peace and pros
parity tothe people who were beginning to settle
‘long the Whitewater River Further north, however,
the Callntaiane found themselves Taced with the
insurmountable mas of the Ceagrck Peaks.

They also found themselves
world Sorcerees, These mystical spell eaters lived in
a sini colony high up in the Ceagrocks, fom where
they looked down on the southem lands. They
had been living there fr as long as any ofthe loca
hilmen could remember, and they were a pellous
people In allantaria, and indeed inthe whole of he
other nds, spellcasters were few and far
between. As the tes had slowiy settled down and
founded vilages, theirshamansbecame sorcerers, but
te tradition of high magic in Callantaca was only a
hundred years oly the Netherworld Sorezers had
ben practising it for centurles before the continents
were broken up! They resisted every atempt by the
forces from Gallantaia to bing “aviization 10 the
Cragroaks, ening Regulis's ist son ito standing
Slane, and his second and third into a pale of stunted
tak trees

‘The Gallantarans, therefore, looked in other diese
tions for the expansion of thelr reals. Heading cast
across the wide, fre lands as far as what is nov
called the Border Rive, they found small hamlets and
vilages who slated that they ossed no allegiance to
King Regulus, for they were sendy pledged tothe

lords of Brice. Another nation had risen and speead
quick across the eollng land as far as the Brackish
ay beyond the Onyx Sea. And beyond Bice, hetiny
Jenygdom of Ruddlestone as slowly ising in power
‘under the leadership of their priest-king, Emissries
rived in Royal Lendle from a place beyond the
Souther peaks, which called itself Femphrsy, and
‘hey revested thatthe southern lands were slowly
being sted to,

Tnthespaceof peshaps a hundred yeas, thecontinent
became covered with many small naions. Regolar
ttade-ovtes linked the major towne, which slowly
tured into cis. Caravans crossed the continent,
faom Royal Lndle tn the north as fa a ArKleton, the
new capital of the nation which now called self
Analand. True, the way was al aught with danger,
‘expecially when passing the Demon-haunted heights
‘ofthe Witctooth Line and hail crossing the easter
pati of Lendlland, where horse-nomads and primi
lives sil hunted each othe, but as ade became ever
‘mere important the routes attracted other settlers,
‘whobegan toiviize many more areas, But with ade
‘therealways comes war, seems, forsooa Gallant
found itself drawn into confit with Brice, which
‘wished to expand its borders to ake advantage of the
better famingland further west. Many bates were
fought during the reign of Repulirs great-prest-
grandson, King Werkel, until a tece Was filly
greed, which made the newiy renamed Border Rivet
‘he new boundary ofthe lands,

Having had its ase of battle, however, Bice wanted
tore, and looked eastvards towards Roddlestone
‘The poople of the small nation were very religious,
ruled by apristking eho they fully believedto be the
divine representative of their gods on the Earthly
Plane Spurred into action by forays into thet and by
soldiers from Brice, the good people of Ruddlestone
Dull thee massive Demonkesp Fortress and filed it
witha garssonof fanatical wariors, who have keptan
Unsleeping eye on Bic ever since. In response, Bice
lured into an increasingly warike state too, with
things coming to @ hoad in the Fst and Second,
Rudalestone Wars oF 1735 and 18,

ANALAND AND ITS WALL

While the lands of the noah were fighting among,
Themselves, the southern province of Analand a5
lowly becoming more and more civilized waver the
Influence of several hundeed year of benevolent rule
bythe Arkle Dynasty. Te kings of Analand became
‘known for their careful, considesste rae, which
tumed Analand from just another collection of small
trading towns into a civlized centee for tade and
learning. But outsiders looked at Analand with envy
and greed. Surely, ran the thoughts of every tworbit
oroserand bigandin thesouthlands i held isto
peaceful and contented, it must be wealthy beyond
compare,

So, from all sides, Analand was suddenly assalled by
raiders, who burt villages, deseeated temples, and
pat whole areas fo the sword, The whole tone of
‘Analand change, a wartors became more common-
Place than farmers or naders on the roads leading

HISTORY AND LEGEND 37

north and west. Relations with Ledleland, whose
‘zens many ofthe riders oxtnally wer, becrme
Stainedaimosttothe pinto war, which wasaverted
‘ny afte crea diplomacy ontath des. Ale ty
ets af incereant rida, King Ase XIX could take it
‘ho Tonger. MHI Ma ttn of sdsr, he dre Up 2
Pion lich woold help protec Analand rom al
Spporanistcgandr and mercenaries, His pln was
sTtoi bulls Sallavund the nd ond he ders
Would ot be abe ge nt

In 1845 oF, the building ofthe Great Wall of Anand
Was begun. It was an immense projet, planned to
lake a hundred and twenty years, but it suffered
‘immediate setbacks when the fest Seton wos fmm
down stoneby stone by a massiveforcefraigers. The
‘Analanders drove them back, but they setsened again
and again, hindering the work with carefully planned
tacks. The dealin forthe walleameand went, with
‘only half ofits length completed and the land nea
bnkruptey and revolution ae all resources were
poured into Keeping the wall going. Finally inthe
year 19700r, work on the Great Wall of Anand was
Hopped for good. Ie was incomplete in tee paces,
and in many other places it was already crumbling
' resul of the peated poundings of tidets from
Lendleland, Bott be fai ie did protect Analand in
‘many places, and itis often awesomely imprestve.

Now that the Grest Wall was offically “ished,
Analan could concentrate on rebuilding trade and
‘economy, and continue its path towards evilization,
[Across the whele ofthe Old World, the nations were
‘sling down. Disputes wor stil ta frequent, but by
now they had fallen into a routine of thre, counter-
threat, border skims, diplomatic protest, major
battle, and then pence, Brice stil auabbled wth
anyoneit could; raldrs tll used Lendleland.asabase
foe attacks on olated parts of Far Analand: prtes
began fo prey on merchants rounding the northern
apes but they had lil effect on the volume of ead;
lark things stil rked in the highlands and the
vermin of Kakhabad, and made oessional forays
fino the lowlands only tobe driven back agaln.Every-
thing eared on much as novtal

38 TITAN - THE FIGHTING FANTASY WORLD

The Spawning of Chaos

While Allansia and the Old World were slowly pulling
themselves towards civilization, in the far land of Khul
stranger things were beginning, things which would
eventually affect all of Titan. At first, however, the
growth of this continent was very similar to that of the
other two,

Khul was originally a very fertile land, with a semi-
circular arc of gently rolling steppes enclosing a wide
central area of flat moorland and grassy plain, cut by
wide, slow-moving rivers. The early people of this
land were mostly uncivilized hunters and foragers,
experts at tracking and killing game, but not so good at
writing or counting. In the western lands, however,
game became scarce and people took to living off the
land, Eventually a few villages began forming along
the coast, and then further inland, Around 151007, a
number of small towns along the west coast were
unified under the rule of King Klarash Silverhair, and
the nation of Klarash was formed. Under his rule, the
nation slowly grew, until by the year 1565 it stretched

from the southern edge af Scorplon Swamp (then, as
now, a perilous place of danger and adventure) to the
River Swordflow. Incidentally, the latter received its
name in 1542, when the first exploratory party of
warriors from Klarash came under attack from a horde
of diminutive Goblins while attempting to ford it. Up
to their chests in water, the warriors attempted to
draw their weapons, but were swept off balance and
rushed away by the current to their deaths.

As Klarash grew in size and stature, It began sending
its merchants further and further afield, They trav-
elled across the central plains to small settlements like
Remara, Varese and Kabesh, and south to the small
fishing villages on the edge of the [nland Sea, and
eventually even further afield, rounding the Moun-
tains of the Giants and heading north to Ashkyos.
Soon merchants were travelling back and forth so
frequently that small settlements grew up at intervals
along the route, eventually turning into towns
themselves.

Klarash grew rich and powerful, and in the reign of
Silverhair’s grandson, Klarash III, work was started
on a new capital, Shakista, in the centre of the king-
dom, on the banks of the Kasbled River (now known
as the Catsblood), The kingdom was expanded further
north, as faras the small port of Dijiretta on the Coast of
Sharks, but to the south the way was blocked by tribes
of primitives and Goblins, who fought tooth and claw
to remain on their lands. Eventually, however, the
armics of Klarash pushed them back. To keep them
from returning, the clty of Zagoula was founded in
1611 of, Designed by the best stonemasons and archi-
tects the king could find, it was a very beautiful place,
a haven for scholars, artists and sorcerers, who felt
they could fully get to grips with their subjects in such
a stunning city.

Kabesh grew too, expanding into and around the
rocky outcrop against which it had been built. Under
the rule of Khan Gyorgir, a descendant of the legend-
ary horse-nomad chief who once swept across the
central plains driving all before him, it expanded until
Kabesh was the capital city of an empire which
stretched from Kalagar in the north to Tak in the
south. His was a benevolent rule, though perhaps a
little too tolerant, for he did not mind who dwelt
within his lands, as long as they declared allegiance to
him. On the fringes of the Mountains of the Giants
there dwelt a great many Orcs and Goblins, but the
Khan allowed them to reside there in peace once they
had sworn loyalty to his throne. As soon as the Khan's
representatives had left their lands, of course, the Ores
went back to raiding the local villages, slaughtering
and murdering their inhabitants as if nothing had
changed.

In the far eastern corner of the continent, the cityport
of Arion grew up, supposedly on the ruins of a much
older settlement from before the dividing of the con-
tinents. It thrived on trade with Ashkyos and Kabesh,
and rapidly grew in stature until it was almost the
match of the Khan’‘s capital itself. And around the
coast of the Inland Sea, a great number of trading
settlements grew until they were small walled city-
states themselves. Competition for trade between the
cities of the Inland Sea was fierce, resulting in sporadic
wars — usually settled by naval battles — as several city-
states allied against the others to try to enforce their
own sets of tariffs and trading terms.

In Klarash, the Shakista Dynasty built the King’s
Highway from Djiretta - via the capital — to Kelther to
unify the kingdom, and the volume of trade crossing
the kingdom Increased even further. Merchants and
adventurers travelled all the way from the Shantak

, hl lw, lh OL LA, DA, 41%. 2. ADO Ae it AAAS Oe el ot i

ae FoarfewevwT =. | =

we

weno So

River in the north to far Zagoula, the city of knowl-
edge. [t was a peaceful land, its tranquillity main-
tained by swift and decisive action from the soldiers of
the king at the first sign of any trouble!

THE DEAD CITY’S PRISONER

Such a long-lasting peace was far too good to last, of
course, though this time the danger which threatened
was all-encompassing. The sorcerers and sages of the
city of Zagoula were curious, as all scholars are, and
they began travelling about the world, seeking out
new knowledge wherever they could find it. From
their magnificent Gty they wandered north, studying
the Goblin tribes who dwelt alongside the stagnant
Lake Mlubz. They journcyed south, taking in the
small southern garrisons of Yaziel and Hyennish,
which by now marked the southernmost extent of
Klarash. Travelling further afield, they discovered on
the fringes of the Scythera Desert the old leper colony,
which was now Shakuru, the revolting City of Beg-
gars. They even braved the seemingly endless expan-
ses of the desert itself, running foul of Lizard Men and
shaggy Goblins.

And eventually, as ifit had been pulling them towards
it all along, they found the river and the Dead City. A
party of five adventuring sorcerers and warriors
chanced upon the river, which seemed not to be
flowing anywhere at all; it was just there, its surface
black with foul weed and giant insects, They named it
the River of Decay, and followed it eastwards. After
three day's they came to the city, lying abandoned in
the sand. How long it had been there none could
guess, but it must have been very, very old, for its
buildings were strangely shaped ~ pyramids and
diamonds seemed to dictate their forms, rather than
curves and squares — and much of it seemed to be very
inaccessible to beings shorter than about three metres
tall. Everything was decorated with images of fish and
octopi — bizarre and disturbing images to find in a
desert city. Nothing lived in the city - no monkeys,
birds or plants of any kind —and a strange almosphere
hung over the whole place, so that the adventurers
almost felt that they were desecrating a holy shrine.

Exploring further, the adventurers came to the largest
building of all, an immense cathedral-like structure.
When they entered, they were plunged into darkness,
for it had no windows. Sumeonc found a tinder-box,
and as the flickering flames danced from their candles,
they gazed around and caught their breath in wonder
and shock! Everywhere was decorated with statues
and murals of writhing, tentacled creatures, which
were devouring humans and other creatures, but all
drew the viewers’ attention towards the large dark
shape at the far end of the building. Their fluttering
hearts heaving inside their chests, the adventurers
stepped forward. When they approached, they could
see it was a tomb, and a large one at that, The
atmosphere in the building was hot and oppressive;
voices seemed to dance in their heads, saying aver and
over again, ‘Open the tomb, open the tomb!" Almost
as if they were being forced against their wills, their
hands stretched out, and pushed at the stone slab
covering the sarcophagus,

HISTORY AND LEGEND 35

Slowly, so slowly, it stid back, until it fell off the back
with a deafening crash that echoed around the build-
ing, and seemed to bring the adventurers to their
senses. They gazed around in bewilderment, until the
scaly hand inching its way over the edge of the crypt
caught their eyes, They stared transfixed, rooted to the
spot as the nightmarish creature sat up in its coffin, its
tentacles writhing as if sniffing the air. Somehow, one
of the adventurers tore his eyes away and screamed!
His fellows started, turned and fled the mausoleum
and the city.

Many months later, one of the adventurers was found
by a merchant travelling from Zagoula to Yaziel. Half-
dead from exhaustion and dehydration, he babbled
out his story. He had survived the crossing of the
Scythera Desert by killing and eating his weaker col-
leagues, but now his strength failed him and he died-
The story of the Dead City and of its solitary inhabitant
spread like wildfire. Closely following it across
Klarash, however, were reports that Goblins and Orcs
in the Mountains of the Giants had abandoned any
pretence of peace, and were preparing for war!

. a !

hi Wy
}

rh ite :

ioe .

oy ‘ 2

f

JZ

SS SN
SY,
Say
Se nA. SS

es

£
“
/
é
}
r
‘re

40 TITAN — THE FIGHTING FANTASY WORLD

The War of the Wizards

The releasing of the nameless Chaos-spawn from the
tomb in the Dead City in Khul was the spark that lit the
flame, which eventually grew and grew until it
became the conflagration which was the War of the
Wizards in Allansia, the Great War against Evil in
Khul, and the Rise of Kakhabad in the Old World. For
centuries, Orcs, Goblins and Trolls had been albbling
at the edges of civilization, testing the strength of the
defences. Attracted by the ascendance of sorcery in
Allansia, many evil mages had trained in solitude until
they had mastered the techniques of bringing the dead
back to life as their servants. In the Mountains of the
Giants in Khul, the inhuman races had gathered their
resources under the ignorant eyes of Khan Gyorgir
and his people. In the Desert of Skulls, the Snake
People were developing magic which would raise the
temperature of the sandy wilderness and cause its
sterile wastes to expand. In every dark comer of
Kakhabad, shamans and witch-doctors manipulated
the natural forces, changing day to night and back
again within the space of a few hours. Everywhere you
looked, Chaos was slowly seeping into the world
through ever-widening cracks.

The first engagement came in southern Khul, in the
spring of the year 199807. As the month of Skies in
Darkness turned to Land’s Awakening, the skies did
not lighten in Zagoula. A sandstorm blew across the

southern lands, darkening the sky for three weeks and
bringing with it a plague of locusts and snakes which
infested the city. Messengers were sent north to report
what was happening, as everyone in the city knew
that the storm was not of natural origin. On the
twenty-third day of the storm, with the terrified
inhabitants of Zagoula cowering in their homes, the
Forces of Chaus came striding into the city, the Chaos-
spawn from the Dead City leading Trolls and Orcs,
and many formless Chaotic beings. The city was
sacked, crushed beneath the weight of the obscene
armies which swarmed everywhere.

Once the southern Jands had been destroyed, the
Forces of Chaos split. One army swept north-east,
gathering more and more momentum as it decimated
the fertile lands at the heart of the continent, and
turned them into barren expanses of ash. The host
arrived at Kabesh, and met up with a smaller force af
Ores and Goblins which had swept down across the
northern plains. The city was besieged, while a break-
away force writhed and slithered north-cast, heading
for the city of Arion. The other army pushed towards
Shakista, the capital of Klarash, but was halted in the
Anvil Pass through the Mountains of the Giants by a
large force which had responded to the messages of
disaster coming from Zagoula. After holding back the
tide of Orcs and Goblins for five days, the armles gave
way, retreating back through the pass to take up a new
position closer to the capital, where they were joined
by reinforcernents from the coastal lands. Plans were
made to abandon the capital if it became necessary...

THE REAVING OF ALLANSIA

The first engagement of the War of the Wizards in
Allansia was an assault on Gar-Goldoran, the capital
of Goldoran, which stood close to where the modem
city of Zengis stands today, As the first warm day's of
summer were beginning, patchy bits of news began
spreading about the rampaging Forces of Chaos
on Khul. Sorcerers and mystics complained of
tremendous elemental forces disrupting the natural
magical fields of Titan, and of the presence of Chaos
on the Spirit Planes. Reports reached the lord of Gar-
Goldoran of a massive host of Chaotic creatures
assembling in the eastern parts of the Icefinger Moun-
tains, but before he could even dispatch messengers to
warn the surrounding lands, the hordes of Chaos
were howling at the gates of the city. But he had
forgotien the versatility of his court sorcerers, who
managed to break through the disruption of the magi-
cal fields caused by the strong presence of Chaos, and
alert their fellow spell-casters in Carsepolis of the
situation, before joining the battle for the city.

Gar-Goldoran fell quickly, far too quickly, for it had
been unprepared, but some of the Forces of Chaos
next marched east for Fangthane, the sacred capital of
the Dwarf race, which was anything but unprepared:
the Dwarfs had been expecting this event, sooner or
later, for five hundred years. Now that the day had
arrived, the Dwarfs did not worry that sacred Fang-
thane was finally under attack. Abandoning the city in
front of Fangthane, they retreated inside the mountain
and waited for the Forces of Chaos to break against it
like so many boats against a rocky coastline.

When the attackers arrived, the Dwarfs were milly
_Ssappointe,forthey were mosilycowatdly Oresand
“rol, with fer creatures of Chaos to offer them any
sort of challenge at all After llsving the repulsive
remy to buen the city and then batter lca aalnst the
impregnable defences ofthe citadel fortwo weeks the
[wars became inpatient and went out to mest the
Forces of Chaos with cold steel, Three days of sold
fighting, and the invaders were no more, but with
typical grimness the Dwarfs celized thatthe mala
frengih must have been diverted elseehere and that
they should march to reinforce the humans of the
wwestem lands. Leaving behind merely. token
defences, the Dwvars marched fr Allan,

‘The main fore adn fact, turned forthe Ratna,
snd swept across them like a forest fre through dry
brishtwood, heading or Troltooth Pass and Alans
‘The cade of Durang on the edges ofthe Fntlands
proved only a minor ittion to the Frees of Chacs,
And was pulled to picces by a masa of fons
‘monstosilis. At Taltooth Pass, however, 2 force
from Sslamonis awaited them, selnfoxced by the
Grand Wizard of Yore and five other speleasters. AS
‘he unstoppable back tide of waiting, howling Evil
fli towards them through the narowest pact of the
pss the force of Salmons broke rank and fed back
fhrough i But at the for end they turned and stood
{thelr ground, asthe sorcerers raised 3 massive wall of
‘ame across the pas, dividing the evil army in 100,
[Now thatthe enemy had been cut down to a more
‘manageable size the soldiers of Salamonts ai into
them forall they were wort, and deove them back
into the wall of mes; wile on the other side the
tantoppable amy of Chaos pushed more and more
bodies nto the fe.

HISTORY AND LEGEND 41

Eventually the commanders of the Forces of Chaos
manages to callback their oops and they retreated
Into the Moonstone Hills. Here they met up vith
reinforcements in the form of several thousand Ors,
And a dozen Dark Elf wardorsorcerer, who guided
the fol army through the hil and on to the Pagan.
Phin, where they raced towards Carsepols, hard on
theheelsof the heroesofTroltooth Pass who reached
the capital justin fontof them, AstheForcesofChuos
sired around the hasty prepared defences, many
ftheancient city’s citizens ily belived tat the end
ofthe world had come,

‘THE BATTLEGROUNDS OF CHAOS

‘As the breakaway section of the Forces of Chaos
slithered across Khul towards Arion, tas met and
ambushed by soldiers from that city le by the legend
ay hero Brendan Bloodaxe, who had hidden among,
the tes ofthe Old Forest near Corda, before sweep
inground ina pincer movement which caught th evil
aries by surprise. Many men were lost that day, 3s
{he armies balled back and forth across the pai, but
Inthe final ays of the setting sun that evening Blood
‘Be looked doven over the field of carnage to soe only
hhomans standing. They worked throughout the nigh,
touring the foul corpses of the vanquished for lest
they corrupt the land before marching for Kabesh in
the light of dawn,

‘They arved far too late, and found only stoking
ruins and a great many corpses. The evi aemy had
pulverize the ct, and then raced away to the wes
fo reinforce the ther army at Shalista, which was

iy belng planed down. Pushing his troops tothe
ling of human endurance Bloodaxe raced across the
ash wastes left by the Chaotichorde, and felon them
{oom behind just as they reached the edges ofthe
bate forShakista The human defenders had held the
disgusting invaders back for eleven days, and wore
finally winning against them. Theardva ofthe aries
of Aron cutoff any hope of reteat for the Fores of
Chaos, who were squashed ikeanappleina vice, and
with much the samaresult. The ighunglasted fornine
‘ore days, but atthe end of tthe armies of Chaos
were no more, though much of Shakista had suflered
foo, and it eventually had to be demolished. The
incursion of Chaos into Kil hel cost all the partis
concemned very dea. The Orcs and Goblin were all
but finished as a major fore for several hundred
yess, the humans had lost many fine cites and
thousands of wares and evllans, and worst of al,
{hecentee ofthe land had been blighted by the tant of
Chaos, and would never recover.

‘THE LAST BATTLE

‘Thofinalbatle was theSlegeofCarsepols:Atthe start
ofthe bale, the defenders ofthe ancient capil of
Allssia numbered around eghleen thousand,
Inuding women and chikeen, who readied them
selves for battle alongside the men. The Forces of
Chaos were uncountable, but lined much of the
horizon beneath thick louds of giantkats and choking
back smoke. As the ball commenced, hordes of
GGablis brought up siege-ngines catapult, bate.
ing-ams and siege-towers. Asa hall of Back arcows
42 TITAN - THE FIGHTING FANTASY WORLD

rained down from the sky to keep defenders from the
battlements, the Goblins manoeuvred the engines into
position, and began smashing their way into the city.
Whenever they breached a section of the wall, they
met with very strong resistance, but no matter how
many human warriors held out against them, their
numbers were ultimately Uinuted, while the Orcs and
Goblins just kept on coming, After three days — during
which time great piles of Orc and Goblin bodies were
heaped up, but ata heavy cost to the defenders — the
walls were abandoned, and the defenders took to the
streets, ensuring that the evil armies paid for every
step of the way in hundreds of black-clad corpses.

THE SIEGE OF CARSEPOLIS

The fighting continued in this manner for two weeks,
after which almost three quarters of the city had been
demolished and two thirds of the defenders were
dead. The rest were gathered around the palace of the
king. awaiting the final assault. But as the familiar
shapes began creeping across the rubble towards
them, an uproar arose from the rear of the evil army. A
combined force of Dwarfs from Fangthane and Elves
from Darkwood and from the Forests of Night had
arrived, catching the Chaotic Forces by surprise. The
sound of Dwarf voices raised in a battle-hymn
accompanied the flash of Elf magic as it it the sky Ina
hundred places. The defenders took heart, and went
out to mect the enemy for the last time.

But this time the gods were with them. One moment
the humans were crushed by a wall of Goblins and
Orcs, and the next their enemies were dead, and there
were only Dwarfs and Elves there, each and every one
covered from head to toe in the foul blood of their
vanquished foe. The war was won!

The New Age

In the aftermath of the War of the Wizards and the
Great War against Evil there was much to be done, but
there was also much that could not be undone. In
Allansia, many cities and towns had been destroyed
by the armies of Chaos, but in Khul they had poisoned
the earth itself, turning vast areas into ash wastes, fit
for nothing at all. [n view of the apocalyptic nature of
the events of 1998 or, a new dating system was intro-
duced. It took the year which would have been
1999 oT as Year One of the New Age. From then until
the present day, we have referred to dates as Ac, or
After Chaos; as you no doubt know, we are now In
2B4 ac.

ALLANSIA AFTER CHAOS

[n the two and a half centuries since the incursions of
Chaos across Allansia, little has happened to the
continent. So many settlements were destroyed, and

FIRST DAY ~ The bottle begins

ELEVENTH OAY¥ - inner walls abandoned

; ES FOURTH O4Y « Outer walls abandoned oa
= r ee —— on eel

ee

FIFTEENTH OY ~ Balile erxis wah arrival of reinforcements

0 many people killed, thatthe old Kingdoms he
GGoldoran ceased to exe, Ina few places nev King
dome immediotely sprang up to replace the old ones,
fd fe continued much as before, but in most sess
life had ben blighted by the war. Inthe eaty years of
the New Age famine and plague were common,
Finishing of the gruesome job that the powers of Evil
nnd stated.

‘The ruins of Carsepolls were tainted by Chaos, and
many ghosts were seen wandering the baefield late
at night, The dy was abandoned by its survivors,
rmostof whom were given rfugein Salamonisandthe
Yale of Willow, and in newer, expanding towns ike
‘Chalice and Shazaar. In tine, mest of the ruins of
‘Carsepoli gradually rumbled, but those ofthe dock
area ~ which had hardly been Touched by the war —
remained. They atuacted belgands and thives, who
Used them asa ready-made hideout, perpetuating the
oes of ther ghosty inhabitants to keep inquisitive
people aay. Soon a whale colony of evi-doers was
Tring in the runs, which were slowly turing back
intoa town. Over thecourseof paraps ity years the
tly whichis Port Blacksand zone fom the rls. Is
fist ruler was Prince Olaf Twohorse, who will be
remembered in history as the man who slavted a
pion colony on isolated Fire Island. He was suc
‘eeded by Baron Valenti, another corrupt nobleman,
‘whoin tar was replaced by theinfamousLord Azur

In other parts of Allansla the reminders of the past
faded or crumbled sway. The Fats are stlitered
with the rlns of villages and fortifications fom the
‘wae, now home only to ras and ghosts. The Dwarfs

HISTORY AND LEGEND #

nd Elves from the novtveast were fed for many
‘month for their part inthe defeat of Bil but evento:
Ally had to return home, The Elves went back to their
forests, and slipped out of sight of man again. The
‘Dwarfs returned to sacred Fangthane, and slowly set
bout ebullding the ely a he foot of te mountain,
Some ruins sill remain, eminding the Dwarfs of the
‘war, but most were cared away and replaced By
completely new Buildings and sees.

CGiviization hasbeen notoriously slow in returning to
Allansi, which sas unciized place now asitwasa,
thousand years ago, The land i wild, with monsters
land inlumen races lueking in the hls and even
dbvng to rad the lowlands now and again. Dark
Sorcerers sil dabble in powerful magic, though they
donot understand much of whatthey are playing with
any more. And heroes stl stalk the wilerlands,
looking for adventure and finding it

KHUL AFTER CHAOS

Unlike Allnsa, Khul clung on to some civilization,
tough it had been socely shaken by the wat, The
ruins of Shakista and the suerounding countryside
‘were abandoned, and a new capital was bull at
Ximoran. The ruling family was reinstated, but after
only sixty year the lst king died without leaving an
hei. The land is now ruled by the Counell of Seven,
made up of representatives from ench ofthe major
towns ofthe and

In other parts of the world, the recovery Was not so
quick. Zagoule faded into. rung, abandoned by
Jhamanitybecauee of the tebe ghosts which lung
sontosomesenblancefesslence there Thesouthert
tows of Yaziel and Hyennish escaped almost intact,
and they survive to this day, but with the decline of
‘Zagoula they have become Isolated from the lands
further north. Kabesh has gone the same way 35
Zagoula, though Its ruins age very dieu to And
now. They have been buried beneath the Wastes of
‘Chacs,thename given by allinabitantsof Khulto the
desolate ash wastes which choke the heat of the
continent.

Northeast of the ruins of Kabesh are the Batile-
rounds, the remains ofthe plains whore Brendan
Bloodaxe's amy defested one ofthe ares of Chace,
tis pleasant arex of grassland, but here and thereace
rent bare patches where nothing grows, and which
ime wil ot cogs, People wh know th aes sy
that these are the places where the bodies of the dead
‘wars of Chaos ae buried, and that at cetain times
heir aphits wander the plains, howling out for

The Gly of Arion fared beter than most, bring left
‘unscathed by the war - though many of is wariors
didnot return home. Over telat two cnturesithas
{grown slighty, and become the largest city in the
borth-east, ruled over by the descendants of Brendan
Blondaxe hirasel

| TITAN THE FIGHTING FANTASY WORLD

‘THE OLD WORLD IN WAR AND PEACE

‘Surprisingly, Its the lands ofthe Old World which
Ihave changed the most in the years since the wars,
though they touched them only brlety. Despite the
‘minor interupion which the Ris of Kakabod co
Situted, the poles and powerstruggles ofthe Old
‘Word have continued much os before

Buice continued making threatening digpays of is
military might hich fooled noone, until euddenly
tempted a nas invasion of Gallanara Inthe yeat
175 ac. Warriors poured over the Border River and
began advancing across the plains towards Royal
Lendl sell At the same time, rebellious subjects
from the Northlands began encroaching into Gallan
tara va the Ceagiock Pesks. The War of the Four
Kingdoms had begun,

King Constaln of Galantara immediately rode 10
repel the Northlanders, vvhle dispatching another
force to intercept the invaders Gram Bice The king,

and his venue, including the queen, were being
‘cote back towards the gasson town of Forrin
ter spending several daye inspecting the troops in
thale postions in the Northlands, The royal partys
‘guide was Baron Tag of Casper. Unknown tothe king
‘Tag had made a pact with the regent of Brice: Ihe
could dispose ofthe royal family, the regent would
Slow him to take the throne asking of Gallant. On
that fatefel day, the snguapecting, King. Constsin
accepted Tag’ offer to guide the royal party back
through the ueacherous Netrow "Pass In the
CCragrocks. When they asved there, however, they
were attacked bya band of Norhlanders inthe pay of
“Tag, and the env party were slain, Constain being
finished off by Tog himsel

Inthe absence of any hel, the court sorcerer Tantalon
took contro of Gallantara for thelast two yeas of the

‘war, Eventually, after devisinga st of tks to elimin-
steal but the most suable candidat, a new segent
‘was found, and Gallantsia setled down i an aneary
peace again

In recent ears, Femphrey is taken over from Gallan-
taciaasthecentreofatention, under the leadership of
King Chalanna, known as the Reformer. The wise
ret has abtsined a magical artefact called the Crown
ff Kings (thought to be a git fom the devious
[Netherworld Sorsrers ofthe Cragrock Peaks), which
beste awesome power of leadetshipand justice on
anyone who wears King Chalanaa brought peace
and prosperity to Femphrey through the power ofthe
Crown of Kings, but more importantly, once
Femphrey had benefited from the Crown, Chalanna
decide fo pass it around the other nations a8 wel,
Every four yeuss, the Crown of Kings passes to
another sulee, who may use ito establish order and
peace within his Kingdom and then join the Femphrey
Alliance. The kingdoms of Ruddlestone, Lendlland,
Gallanaria and even warlike Bree have ken their
tums under the rue ofthe Crown,

Recently the Crown of Kings was passed to the Kingof
Analand, who was using greateectin improving
themarae of Analand untitwasslalenby Bird Men
in the employ of the Archmage of Mampang, in
northern Kakhabad, It seeme thatthe ev despot
‘wishes fo make Kakhabod his own kingdom, sing the
‘Crown of King to organize the various Chaolefc-
tions under im. Should he suceeod inthis, Kakabaa
‘wll become a tremendous threat fo the whole of the
(Old World Without the power ofthe asa, Ana
land is crumbling aga. Anuland is now desperstly
socking a brave adventurer fo retrieve the Crown of
Kings and bring, peace and. prospesly back to
Arslan.

THE FORCES OF GOOD 4

THE FORCES OF GOOD

When you set off on your travels around the world,
you will come across members of other races. To some
of you this will not seem unusual, for in your parts of
the world you may rub shoulders with Dwarfs, Elves
and others as a matter of course. But for many of you,
talk of such creatures, and of worse things such as
Orcs, Goblins, Lizard Men or even Dark Elves, will be
unusual and may even be terrifying. The following
sections, therefore, aim to provide you with more
information about your fellow creatures. They will
warn you whom to be wary of, and whom you can
trust on your travels — for there will be races
everywhere who will appear to offer friendship,
shelter and safety, but who will just as quickly stick a
dagger in your back, You will quickly learn whois who
on your travels, but it is perhaps wise to have some
idea of the ways of the world before you leave your
front door.

The Forces of Good, with whom we start, are morc of a
‘tendency’ than an established power bloc. There are
no organized armies of Good in the same way as there
are armies of Evi] and Chaos, for example. But there
are races who follow the gods of Goodness, such as
Dwarfs and Elves, who may be thought of as races
allied to the cause. And there are individuals in this
world who stand up for Good against an overwhelm-
ing tide of ignorance and malice, and who will be able
to offer aid or advice to one such as yourself when you
are hard pressed by the Forces of Evil.

The lands of Titan are still wild and uncivilized, with
few centres of learning remaining after the War of the
Wizards, and most lands are ruled by a combination of
strength, ignorance and fear, if they are ruled at all.
Only a few exceptions cling hard to the path of Good —
such as Analand, which has tocower behind a massive
wall to protect it from other nations, and the old
kingdom of Ximoran, now slowly crumbling as ils
people isolate themselves in their walled cities. [n their
quest for peace, most nations allow the worshipping
of all the gods, whatever their philosophies: only a
very brave ruler would have the courage to tell the
worshippers of Slangg. for example, that they are no
longer permitted to kill other citizens! But in small
comers of the world, the worship of the more peaceful
gods goes on - quictly maybe, but at least they are
remembered.

The Gods of Good

You have already read of the events of the Godtime,
when, according to many madern priests and scholars
of mythology, the gods created Titan and then battled
with Death and his foul minions for its control, until
Time was released and then killed in an ironic reversal
of his own powers over mortality. After the Banishing,
al] the gods returned to the Celestial Court with the
exception of Logaan the Trickster and a few of his
cohorts, who stayed on Titan and watched over the

tise of his creation, Man. Many of the gods of Good
still gather in the Celestial Court to watch over their
world, but some have now left the palace for their own
domains, Pangara, god of winds, and Sukh, god of
storms, for example, now dwell on the Elemental
Planes with other creatures of air. Hydana, god of the
waters, has dwelt at the bottom of the ocean since
before time began.

THE CELESTIAL COURT DIVIDED

There are two main parts to the Celestial Court. One is
made up of the orginal gods who helped create parts
of the world of Titan, and who still govern its physical
aspects. But there are also newer gods, who came into
being around the time of the Banishing. Before the
First Battle they were minor deities (their evil counter-
parts, Slangg and Tanit, served Death on the side of
Evil at the First Battle), but since the rise of mankind
and the other civilized races they have grown in
stature and influence. These new gods govern emo-
tions rather than physical things, and they sit in
judgement over the actions of all intelligent beings ina
part of the Celestial Court known as the Hall of Mind.

They are eight in number, and they are led by Sindla,
the goddess of luck and fate, who is also a member of
the other part of the Celestial Court and who is sister to
Titan, the Father of the World. She is known by many
names in different lands. In wild Kakhabad they call
her Cheelah; in nearby Ruddlestone and unnuly Brice

—_—_—__—_—[>SE—— EE ——— lia, aa

46 TITAN - THE FIGHTING FANTASY WORLD

she is Gredd. In northerm Allansia she is Avana; in
Frostholm she is Lady Luck or Mistress Fate (and
sometimes represented as two separate entities); in
Arantis she is Zaragillia, and she is worshipped, along
with Galana, goddess of plants and fertility, by all
those who depend for their livelihood on the regular
floods of the River Eltus. In other parts of the world
she is Castis, Bismen or Juvenar. Wherever she is
known, she is worshipped, and is a favourite god for
appeals and blessings. ‘May Cheelah protect you’ or
‘Walk with Sindla as your guide’ are common sayings,
and every nation has similar ones.

Her daughter is Libra, goddess of justice and truth,
Also known as Sicalla, Bersten and Macalla, among
many other names, she ls the patron goddess of
Analand and of a number of smaller lands. Under her
watchful eye, an adventurer will be shown all aspects
of the world, for Libra is said to understand all aspects
of both Good and Evil, Law and Chaos, and to be able
to see the reality behind any conflict. She is a powerful
goddess, and is worshipped by many common
people, who need her protection. She ls usually
portrayed as a beautiful woman holding aloft a set of
balances in one hand, with her other hand raised in
admonishment or blessing {it is a source of discussion
among her priests as to which she is portraying).

Asrel, known also as Culacara, Jerez and Ooraseel,
and by many other names, is the goddess of beauty
and love. She is sister to Libra and Usrel, goddess of
peace, and is also related to Galana, but is rarely
worshipped these days. The local village witch may
make offerings to Asrel for you if you want a love-
potion made, but few other humans worship her,
though all know her name,

Usrel is the goddess of peace, sister to Asrel and Libra
and mother of Courga, od of grace, and Fourga, god
of pride, She is worshipped most fervently in war-torn
lands, where besieged citizens entreat her to end the
fighting. She is also known by the names Lirlel,
Enkala, Ageral and Westréa, and is most often
portrayed as a motherly figure, her arms spread wide
as if to enfold the world in peace.

Her children are, as we said, Courga and Fourga, the
twin gods of grace and pride. They are said to be
opposing gods, who fight each other to produce dif-
ferent degrees of pride and humility in the characters
of people, Various myths tell the story of their conflict,
but mone make much sense. The name of Fourga,
especially, is also subject to a good deal of abuse, as
pride is rarely considered a virtue any more. In places
such as Kharé, the vile city of thieves and cut-throats
in wild Kakhabad, Fourga is portrayed as a vengeful
god, who wreaks great retribution on those who are
over-proud. His priests preach at great and tedious
length that pride comes from within, and should not
be confused with arrogance or pretensions —but few of

their people seem to take much notice. Their son is
Telak, god of courage, who is sometimes also associ-
ated with Rogaar, the lord of lions, and who is often
portrayed as a lon or a Dragon, or as a hefty warrior
armed and ready for battle. He is the patron of all
warriors and professional mercenaries — many, you
will find, bear the golden sword which is his symbol
tattooed on the backs of the hand which grips their
own weapon. His name is common to many parts of
the world, though he is also known as the Shield-
bearer, the Swordbearer and the Warrior.

The final member of the Hall of Mind is Hamaskis, god
of learning. He is another who is also a member of the
Celestial Court itself, and is the patron of all scholars
and sorcerers (induding the authors of this book). He
is usually depicted either as an elderly man or as a
fresh-faced youth, preaching wisdom from a book
which he holds open before him. He ts also known as
Serion or Tyralar Ln other lands, but his worship is
restricted to those lands where knowledge is a virtue:
in uncivilized lands Hamaskis is not known, and the
Hall of Mind has only seven occupants.

THE OTHER GODS

In the main chamber of the Celestial Council, the other
gods and goddesses watch over the physical aspects of
the world of Titan, There are a great many gods, and
each is served by lesser gods and demigods, drawn
from their own children, legendary heroes who have
ascended to the heavens to sit with the gods and soon.
The ‘elder statesman’ of all the gods ts Titan, Father of
the World, always represented asa very old man, with
a benevolent smile playing on his lips but a stern look
in his deep eyes. Few worship hit, but all know of
him and offer pleas for his blessing almost as com-
monly as they entreat his sister, Sindla, for good luck.

Titan has many children. His daughter Galana is
goddess of plants and fertility, and is the patron of
farmers and Elves, whom she is said to have created.
She is also known as Erillia, Kachasta, Zaran or the
Gardener In other parts of the world. At planting and
harvest times, most farmers partake of a special
ceremony in worship of Galana, where seed and
seythes are blessed and everyone present prays that
she will look kindly upon them and grant them a good
harvest. She is also associated with Varantar, the
patron of shepherds, and a character known as the
Ploughman, both of whom seem to be either her
children, or minor gods under her protection.

Throff, the earth goddess (also called Alishanka,
Kerellim and by many other names), is her sister, and
is the major deity of the Dwarfs, who revere her and
construct shrines in her honour in their bejewelled
subterranean cities. Her husband is Filash, god of fire,
the brother of Glantanka, the sun goddess. Their
children include Verlang, patron of smelters and

THE RUNE OF GOOD

Magical power is often derived from the application of powerful runes
which represent the symbolic qualities of the force one is trying to
manipulate. They also serve as badges of allegiance. The Runc of Good is
an arrow, signifying one purpose, one will, the path of Goodness.

etal:workers, and Lorodi, god of voleanoes, who
‘Somelimes associated with Chaos but in Tack Vexy
Lawful delty who simply has scant repaed for any
‘unfortunate creatures eho getin the plltofhissacred
Tava

Gantanka herself evered in many lands, though
some primitives worship her as the unique deity,
rather than as one of many. Some peoples balove the
$n to be male, giving female characteris to the
‘moon; as with the worship of Lunara in Aaland
CGantanka is lso known by many different nares in
wssous parts of the world, ining, Assamusa,
Herd, Nomar, Sevene and Avel. Her priest offen
rors in very bright robes, and spend much of their
time st the top of thle temples or pyramids chanting
prayers for her protection. Some culturesregard am
fanka asthe wife of Titan, call her the Mother of the
‘Word, and altbute yet more characteristics to her.

‘The other ‘elemental gods include the storm god
Sakh, known for his violent tomper (and for being
worshipped by several quite evil races including the
nightmarish Life Stealers} hisbrotherPangar, god of
trinds; Hydans, god of the waters: Aqualls, god of
‘vers; and Faris, god oficeand cold. Allhave many
Gifferent names indifferent part ofthe worl andre
‘worshipped by humans and nonhumans ake. They
fe asorlated with ether gods, including Solar,
the patron of mariners, and his brother Fura, the
palron of travellers. You wil find many smal shines
foboth gods wherever you wavel and youmay exe to
zake offerings at ther and peay for their protection
fon your wanderings.

“THE FORCES OF GOOD 47

‘THE CONSTRAINTS OF GOODNESS

AAs you encounter servants of some ofthe gods of
Good oa your travels, you may begin fo wonder why
‘somany evil races worship them! Surely, you would
3, oul ereatutes ike Ores would aot wish 1 woe
shipa god like Galana (who they know asthe Lady of
‘Com and pray to for good harvests in the fw areas
‘where the sil bother to grove crops), and in return
Galana woul not bestos her favours upon servants
‘of Erland Chaos, even they were alo fomners? This
Is part ofthe very nature of Goodness, it seems: the
powers of Good ate such that they ca forgive the
{reatures of Ev enough to gant theon thai Blesing
‘when they need

Creatures such a the LieStelers, who worship
Sky are considered servants of vil boca they ve
by violence and Kling hich they seem to dain the
fame oftheir god. In such matters, religion breaks
losrn ate, ¢ ust besa, and priests Rave argued
‘wthone anor for centuries over uch pont, In the
‘ase of Sukh it is generally agred that LifeStalers
fall ue victims only because that isthe way they ate
Certainly, no one seems to argue much when humans
slaughter Ores or Goblins, though most servants of
(Good would agree that kilingis~at east in principle
slaysan act of Evi,

‘Whatever the convoluted tangles press and pilos
ophers get themselves caught up in, you may rest
‘tstred that you atin the service of Goodness vou
‘an counton the pstronageat the godsof Good toelp
you as you venture through this evil ward of ours

48 TITAN — THE FIGHTING FANTASY WORLD

Dwarfs — Delvers of the Deep

There are only a few inhuman races who follow the
path of Good; the most important are the Elves, whom
we shall come to in a while, and the Dwarfs.

You already know of the creation of the Dwarf race by
Throff, the earth goddess, after she had seen Logaan
create Man. Dwarfs are dour people and you would
not, perhaps, associate them with decp religious fecl-
ing, but they worship the earth goddess with an
intensity which is surprising. In every Dwarf settle
ment you will find a small shrine to the goddess —
whom they know as Kerillim, the Earth Mother -
decorated with precious gems and more gold than you
are likely to see in many years. In the Dwarf capital of
Fangthane, they have built a cathedral to her way up
near the peak of the mountain inside which most of
the city resides. It isa place of unearthly beauty, which
shows off the exquisite skills of the Dwarfs when
working with stone and precious metals.

Kerillim is always depicted by the Dwarfs as a tall,
benignly smiling and very beautiful figure, dressed in
flowing light-brown robes and with an undying flame
burning from the palm of her outstretched palm. This
flame symbolizes, it és said, the spirit of the Dwarfs,
which was breathed into them by the goddess, and
which will never diminish in their hearts. When they
die, the Dwarfs believe the fire from their souls rises
to the heavens, where their spirits dwell with their
goddess in a land of gold and gems.

Alongside Kerillim, the Dwarfs worship a great pan-
theon of lesser gods and goddesses, and many demi-
gods and legendary heroes who are believed to inhabit
the heavens while always keeping a benevolent eye
cast earthwards over their relations. The gods include
Verlang, patron of metal-workers, who they know as
DirevendiJ, and Filash, god of fire, who they call
Akkalladin and know as the husband of Kerillim,
There are hundreds of minor gods too: each clan of
Dwarfs has its own patron, as does cach guild of
miners, metal-workers and warriors within a tribe.
Among their heroes, the Dwarfs count a great many
warriors and miners, but above all shines the name of
Hangahar Goldseeker.

HANGAHAR GOLDSEEKER, FOUNDER
OF FANGTHANE

Way back at the beginning of civilization on Titan,
Hangahar Goldseeker was chief of a small tribe of
Dwarfs who dwelt on the fringes of the northernmost
range of mountains called the Kalakir {now the
Freezeblood Mountains of north-east Allansia, which
was still joined to the other lands in those days). He
acquired his surname because of an unerring nose for
finding the richest seams of gold, He would be walk-
ing through the hills, not doing anything in particular,
when he would suddenly stop, sniff a little, and then
point to the ground saying, ‘There's gold down there,
lots of it!’ He was also a great explorer, and helped
map most of the mountains as far north as the icy
plateau beyond them.

it was while he was taking part in his final mapping
expedition that he found the place which would
change the lives of all Dwarfs. He had been travelling
for three months in the roughest territory, dogged all
the way by skirmishes with bands of local Ores, which
had slowly depleted his band, who now numbered
only seven. They were determined to reach the coast,
where they thought they could defend themselves
from the Orcs, and which they knew had to be near,
and they kept pushing ever forward, even though
they were dropping from exhaustion. As they passed
through a deep gully, they caught a glimpse of an inlet
of the sea, which is now known as Jachof Bay to us
humans, but which the Dwarfs have always called
Grinderthdal, the Welcome Waters.

Jost a8 the Dwarfs were checring at the sight,
however, a scteaming pack of Ores bust fom the
zocke a the top ofthe gully and tore down towards
thom, Bing arrows and wielding axes and Kaves
above their scawny heads, The Dwarfs tured to
‘Shand thelr ground, but Hangahar shouted for them to
run, The tarot hesitated, for Dwarfs do not fee
ftom Ores, even sehen they are cutrumbere ify to
‘ones they were her; but hei chief elle again and
they obeyed hm. The party of Dwarfs settled dawn,
the gly and out ofthe far end into a ceasing whieh
fed downto the shore and stopped in amazement!
‘There inthe distance, was the mast bewtifal sight 2
[Dwar could ever behold. Atthe frend of the crags
by, # moutaln loomed from the foothills sume
slowing dlly in the wan light. 1 was what Dwarf
Jogends had alvays insisted existed ~ 2 mountain
‘capped with pure gold~ andthe Dwaes had found it

“They tumed with a stat as several dozen of the
leading Orcs emerged from the end ofthe gully and
made ready with theirbatle axes But the Ors looked
beyonalthe Dae, withalarman ther faces then fll,
other letand vniled~asifthe mountain were some
ind of god! The Dwarfs seized the opportunity and
quickly made good thele escape. Hangahar and hit
Sompanions retomed to their distant vilage, but
lest immediately st out again, this time making
lenght forthe const and sling around itand into the
thy, faking teenie vilage with them! Hangaharand
his people settled around the mountain and, despite
the rabid attentions of the lol Ores, who were
angered beyond endurance By the “deseeation” of
{heir mountaingod, began to construct their <ily
inside ithe ety that would one day become Fang
thane spinal home of all Dwarf peoples.

DWARFS TODAY

AAs we weit, in 284.ac, Dwarfs are quite common
‘store fo husnan habitations in many areas, espe-
Silly novthem Allansi, Indeed, In the centre of old
‘Alnsia thre les the Dwarf toven of Stonebridge, a
‘gular stopping-palnt for. many adventorers and
‘merchants athoy cross the Pagan Plainsand wavel up
the Red River, Dwarfs themacves are leaving ves of
‘ining and exploration behind them and becoming
{Edvenfurers to, The names of Dwaes such 35 Bgl,
Stub Axedlesver and Mor Siverheart are known ©
many of those who wander the northern lands in
serch of adventure

‘THE FORCES OF GOOD 49

Stonebridge welcomes adventurers and others who
fight forthe cause of Good, for the town is regularly
‘stalled by Toca tibes of Orce and Fl Trl, who
‘stom intent on capturing the town’s most prized
‘porseston (ltr the diamond mines which ie bend
the town) ~ the magical war hammer belonging ois
ruler, King ilibran, Gillbran’s famous hammer has
‘served an the standatd forthe Dwarfs ofthe town,
who silly around to defend lt whenever they are
_Rtacked. The hammer i magia, for once thrown
tan opponentit wil stke and then return directly to
‘hehand of the wielder! The Forces of Evil would very
‘luchllketa obtain he warhammer, foritsloss would
<demoralize the Dwar, whoare thecnly beings which
Sand between the Orcs and Hill Tells and the leh
plklngs af selled Allain, even a fr as Port Black-
‘nnd on the coat

In other lands oo, Dwarfs ight against Evil alongside
adventurers and heroes. They are also surpsingly
food sallos, who take to the oceans in their immense
‘wooden ships a they search for dstantslands where
They hope fo find the gold and gems they desire so
ruth, Their men-ofwarsopultly patel the coast
fd escort the galleys which camry thelr gems and
precous melas to distant cites for ting, on the
Iookout for pates and pavateers wo would reb
tham of thei Fich cargo,

‘DWARF WEAPONS
fd able to protect one fom the hardest blows

os

Warhammer Work

“Thowespons Dwarfs use are large and bulky comparedtothoscof humans, but hey aremmanufacured with
{precision which no humnan weapon-maker could match. They are always cast inthe finest see, and are
‘Afcorated with Dvrart runes. Ther weapons have developed from the tals they use underground, see
Include hammers, picks and xcs. Their mail armouris famous the worl over forbeinglight, But very hard

Bate

ait Shit

3) TITAN ~ THE FIGHTING FANTASY WORLD

Obs,
v.
" a, a

~ ~
al

__
-

> ~

as 2

: ‘
Ww

—
iT
" *
Wea
ws
+ a ied
_Y hei ~~

i i

. ——.
UMN in

pee kee UE ty
—>*

Vee

Ss

KAZARKEL,
RESMENTIAL

; ~_ .
* ew

AR A

VI

INSIDE THE CATHEDRAL
OF KERILLIM

THE DIMIKS (iF
FANGTIANE
5 Reb

Lj

ERETHANE
HESTMENTIAL

ts

| 1) /

THE FORCES OF GOOD 351!

ONT hT an

Ory £

as
»

—_

s

s
} Pn
AS

, wa

OUT
sy y

A CER

| a PT
n ei
4

5

OVER SEX THOUSAND
INHABITANTS

s Ny A

A

32 TITAN — THE FIGHTING FANTASY WORLD

DWARF PLEASURES

Dwarfs are simple creatures at heart, though they
pursue thelr pleasures in a very sophisticated manner.
Above all things, they love the treasures of the earth -
gold, silver, platinum, diamonds, rubies and so on.
More correctly, they do not love them — they {ust after
them. Many Dwarfs can almost sniff them out,
wherever they are hidden in the earth, so keenly
attuned are they to these things. But when they have
them, they become afraid, for they fear that other
creatures will try to take them away frorn them again.
So they hide their precious jewels away in vaults,

Ne b

ze

Oe of
~~ \
“ 7

a74E

behind large stone doors with enormous locks, and
they guard them devotedly.

Apart from this paranoid flaw in their characters,
however, Dwarfs are quite admirable. They are hardy
warnors, and though they do not like to kill, they look
on battlegrounds as places where they can prove
themselves in the eyes of their fellows. The other good
thing about battles, of course, is that they are often
an excellent source of tales and songs. Dwarfs Jove
rousing songs and stories, especially if they are
accompatied by a flagon or three of strong ale, anda
pipeful of tobacco.

Dwarf ale is very, very strong, but will not harm
humans who drink it in moderation, unlike the Orcale
Guursh. They also distil a number of special spirits,
induding the infamous Skullbuster spirit, but these
are very much an acquired taste, and are also very
expensive unless you are drinking in a Dwarf tavern,
Dwarfs love a good pipe of smoking-weed or tobacco
to help their conversation flow. They usually trade for
it with humans, who in turn acquire it from the
southern lands where it is grown. Famous Dwarf
brands include Gurny’s Leaf, Pure Axehead and
Dragon Smoke,

Even when they are relaxing, however, Dwarfs will
always keep their weapons close by, for they know
that sooner or later Orcs and Trolls will assail them
again. Life for a Dwarf seems to be one long round of
fighting, drinking and prospecting down a mine ~ but
you would never hear a Dwarf complain about it!

Elves — the Children of
Galana

The other main race of good creatures could not be
more different from Dwarfs. The Elves of Titan are the
epitome of beauty and grace and intelligence, and
believe strongly in the power of magic and the
strength of peace, It is often difficult for humans to

DWARF RUNES

a bat ny j jewel
i late R k kill

b = battle «=o kh kick
ch = chtlef & | live

d= dead F lh kill
dh the | m man
é end HJ n nail

é@é even W nd rend
f father 4 ng hastg
& gold ef é lost
gh ghastly “4 6 aver
h__ikall A é bougirt
i inn + P pick

i light i q{kw) queen

a whole, and is known as the Dwarf Rune.

Dwarf writing consists of runes, simple letters developed because they are easy to chisel into stone. They do
not use punctuation, but mark new sentences with a larger capital rune. Here is what they all mean:

RV>K> 4X PHAN

Note: Dwarf runes spell everything as it sounds, rather than as it is normally spelt. ‘Cat’ is really ‘kat’; ‘pick’
is really ‘pikh’, ‘caughtis ‘kot’ and so on. , the rune for D, is often used as the symbol for the Dwarf race as

r rule K
rhs cover »>

5 sail >
sh = shield A
t fown ft

th thief |

0 «= wnder R
a salute x
v vile A
w wind ag
z rubies x
zh ss treasure A
& 4

understand Elves, fo their culture i 90 far removed.
from ours, and thesediferenceshavecaused the Eves
to bemisunderstod inthe past. The blemish oftheir
Dark Elf relations asde, Wood Elves and Mountain
Elves are probably the purest servanisoftheFeresfor
Good there are

‘THE ELVEN GODS

[As you know, the Elves believe they were created by
Galina, the plant godess, atthe same time as Thro
created the Dwars and Titan coated the Giants, in
initaion of te men which had been made by Logaan
the Trickster, Galana, wha is known by the name
Elia or just EI Mother sail worshipped by all
‘good Elves, who revere her with an dalensity that
furpasecs even that with Which the Dwvars worship
the earth goddess Keri (Taro, knovn as Evil
to the Elva) All Elven forests are dotted with shines
to Eiiln,where Elves will stop and Keep sent fora

few moments as they pass. The goddess is never
poriayedby Elves, whe consider thet na statue would
Eesble fo capture the rue unearthly beauty of thee
poddess, but they desorbe her as Being fer thea
Enythingon ian sith avery skinand lang, owing
‘whltahaishealre haste dllestely pointed carsand
‘deep green ayes ofthe Eves, Shes the Elven ideal of
beauty andany Ef woman rho share similar charac
tee ls admired by all Elves

Eves also worship a number oflesser dies, who sre
known 20 the Children of Ealla, though this is
thought tobe a symbole tite rather than fact. They
include Argowen, god of tees; Abgraven godess of
flowers; and Istare, god of forest creatures. Tey also
now and giveafecngstoHamaskis, god of learning,

“THE FORCES OF GOOD &:

whom they name Lvutin the Sorcerer, and his com>
pnion, the demigod and EIE hero from prehisory
Known only as the White Lord (Fla Oriens in High
Elvsh). Some anal gods may also receive prayers
and offerings. In his or her natural forest habitat, an
E's day wil be fll of small rituals and prayers to
many gods and deities: such praccas keep them at
Peto and at one with their surroundings in a way
Ener fo the ‘meditations’ of a mystic or sorceret
before asting spe

ALONG, LONG LIFE

(One of the things that influence Elven attitudes to
other races is their longevity. Barring aides oF
Geath at the hands of others, most Eves live for
between two hundred and two hundred and fy
years and this in an age sehen most humans donot
each thelr eth beta, what with one thing nd
Another), and they arly show thelr age. In an E's
time a cy could be founded asa vlge, rise to
statehood and ellapse again; generations of humans
‘would come and go an seemingly changoess, the
Ex would witness aloft

“Time, therefore, means very litle toa Ef Theres no
‘eed iorushanything, They arecautiousandforard=
Tooking people, who see everything in terms ofthe
fare eater than of the present. In the few times of
war when they have joined forces with Dwarfs and
sen, they have frustrated theiallies with herwalte
and-ee atade, which is in direct contrast tothe
Urgent ned for ation vowaly demanded by Divas
and humans

Because they live for long time, Elves have found a
reat many ways of pasting thei ime. They domany,
things which ether races Would consider wastes of
timer for instance, they sing songs, talk 10 forest
‘eatures and ake great pleasure in simply watching
‘natural things like plane. I seems to shomterdived
belnge that they do ot knove the value of time, but
really they know ital oo well~they usthaveaTot fit
Touse upasbest they <a.

“Thee longevity has alo given Elves their pecliarlove
forte anal living things. Wallets is understand
able when one cees the sheer beouty ofthe Elven
roves at the heset of the forests, itis hard 10
omprehend how anyone coud love Ores and things
‘af Chaos. TheFlves, however, seem olook upon such
repulsive creatures witha very neutral atitude: they
‘dart much care about them one way or the other ~
they Koon that they wll dle Before they themesives
have reached fll dulthood.

‘THE ORC WARS

In the past, however, Elves have taken exception —
rave exception — to Ores ad other ceatures of Evil,
find Chaos. the years around sor, twelve years
ier the beings which would ater tur into the Dark
Elves broke away from the Elven Counc and fed
‘underground (sa the section on Dark Hes later for
‘more details ofthis event), the northern Elvish kin

‘dom ofthe Mountzin Elves found their forests und
Ineay allak from large, erganized armies of Oss

Si TITAN — THE FIGHTING FANTASY WORLD

by pairof human sorcerers, the Dak Twin. Inthe
Pst Oreshad respassedin the Elven forests, hunting
8nd Liling in indiscriminate eearches for fond, and
hd been met wit brisk opposition i the form of 3
fev wolhaimed anova whieh dropped the fst Orcs
where they stood and persuaded the rst that they
were better off not staying in the forests any longer
than they bad to,

Butthistime, the Ors camein much greaternumbes,
‘whole legions ofthe ful things, and they were led by
people who knew what they weredoing” As the front
lines overan pars of the forest, ther unite would
come wp behind them and bur the toe, clearing
sway the beautiful grenery and leaving only steal
Bash. Elis zecords say tha the Elves could hear the
trees sereaming for many leagues around. The Date
‘Twins were aiming to aqjire some deep secrets of
ish high magic, but they reckoned without King
Glorien Thelomas, Lordof te Elven Counc, whohad
‘ben slow to act when the Elves of Vide! Keathron
rebelled, but who was now spured int action

‘The Ore Wars began, with Elves hazing Ores across
much ofthe northem pat ofthe one continent, sing
few bates, but winning mast ofthemty aniintuce of
‘ef planning.

committed by the Ores. The inhuinan armies fled,
‘uring the treesas they wentinavain attempt tostop
‘he vengeful aries ehich dogged them, but they only
goaded ther pursuers o greater and greater action

The ammies of the Elven nations chased the fu
eatures fora yearanda half as faras the edges the
iceplateauxin theextreme north, where the soreerers
halted the remains of thee once-mighty armies for &
final stand, Butafterallhis hast, Telemas wanted 6
tastehis vengeance slowly, The Elven arnies stopped,
and appeared to be walling. In the frezing condi:
ions, the Ores suffered teraiby, and hey dled in thee
Inundteds, but the Elves many of whom were hardy
‘Mounisia Elves~kept warm by using thelrmagle snd
by reducing their body temperatures toa state snlar
to hibernation for al but'a few houre every day,
leaving perhaps a quarter oftheir mmberon guar.

What the Flves wore waltingforwasthe arrival of nine
very powerful Elven sorcerers, who had been su
‘moned ftom their retueats deep within the forests of
‘hesouth, When they srived, eventually, spring was
‘coming to the frozen regions. The Elven emis
‘arched north, and finaly faced the evl frees. The
ack Twine were challenge to mage combat by the
Elven mages, ad owing tothe code of all magicians

they had to agree. The contest lasted only two rounds,
before an awesome gout of flame issued from the
ground and consumed up the Dark Twins; the Elven
armies marched home, without fuss, and in silence.

There is only one race which is really hated by Elves -
the Dark Elves. The accursed creatures are opposed to
everything that Wood Elves stand for ~ truth, light,
peace and justice. Should a Dark Elf mect up with a
surface Elf, they will have to fight to the death,
because neither side will show any mercy whatsoever.
Fora good Elf to have any dealings with Dark Elves, he
must betray all the principles of his people and his
goddess. Even the poor Black Elves, who were orig-
inally part of Viridel Kerithrion’s rebellion, will have
nothing at all to do with the demonic creatures now
that they have taken up the worship of the foul Demon
Princes. If good Elves regarded Ores with anything
like the samme depth of hatred as they do their evil
relations, itis Likely that there would be few Orcs left to
trouble anyone on Titan.

Ifa Wood Elf is captured by the Dark Elves—and thatis
not a likely occurrence, since he would fight with a
suicidal fury against the foul beings — he is most likely
to be sacrificed to one of their inhuman gods after
much torture and abuse, During ordeals such as this,
Wood Elves have a ‘safety mechanism’, a form of
hypnosis of half-steep that they can slip into at will by
communing intently with their goddess. After a while,
thelr bodies go into the same sort of hibernation that
the Elven forces used in the last battle of the Ore Wars.
While in this state, an Elf cannot speak or respond in
any way, though his eyes may be open and he may
remain upright. Dark Elves will not be taken alive by
Wood or Mountain Elves, who will ran them through
even if they surrender.

ELVEN ADVENTURERS AND ELVEN
WEAPONS

Since the Orc Wars, the armies of the Elven nations
have come together only once, and then only for the
closing moments of the War of the Wizards, though
individual clans fought long and hard for many years
beforehand. But there have always been Elven adven-
turers, wandering the wild lands alone or in the
company of humans, and even (occasionally) Dwarfs.
In their desire to find things to occupy their time, Elves
travel the earth, righting wrongs wherever they are
able, and gencrally helping the cause of Good. They
have a rather strange attitude to adventuring, for they
are not looking for fame and fortune, having no need
or desire for either; they do it simply because it is
interesting! Their human and Dwarf colleagues can

THE FORCES OF GOOD 55

rarely understand such an attitude, though they
quickly accept it when they realize that the Elf will not
need his share of any treasure they acquire.

Elves are exceptional warriors, especially (thanks to
many, many centuries of hunting in their forests) in
using the Elven bows, which have become legendary.
Elven bows are enchanted weapons, which seem
almost ‘alive’. When he fires his bow, an ELf attunes
his mind to the entire action, Me feels the sleekness of
the shaft, the control of the flights and the power of the
bowstring propelling the arrow forward. His mind
merges with the act of shooting the arrow, and
together they guide the arrow to its target with unfail-
ing accuracy. Elves hit what they fire at, and if they
really need to fire their bows, they will usually fire to
kill, All this takes just a few seconds, and is quite
astounding to watch, should you ever get the chance.

Other creatures have tried to use Elven bows - indeed,
less intelligent creatures like Orcs often attempt to
steal them from the Elves, belicving the weapons will
make them truly invincible warriors. They don’t
realize that part of the power of Elven archery comes
from within the mind of the Elf himsclf, and that the
other part has developed slowly through a history of
empathy with the trees from which the wood of their
bow is made, Nevertheless, those who have seen an
Elf bring down a small black speck in the distance that
turned out to be an Orc will have imagined what they
could do if they could use a bow like that,

Elves also use swords, usually long and thin in design,
almost like fencing rapiers. As with all Elven weapons,
their swords are unusually light and strong, almost as
if they were not made from iron and steel, Some Elven
swords have been known to be enchanted, with spells
ensuring that they remain sharp and do not break
traced into the flat of the blades in swirling Elven
runes. They may also glow with a faint light in the
presence of evil creatures, and tingle in the hand of the
wielder to alert him to the presence of such danger.

One such weapon was the legendary Sword of Jeren,
originally given as a gift by the Elven peoples to Prince
Gethel Aranang, who ruled over a small land known
as Bellisaria on the northern edge of the Plains of
Bronze in Allansia, around the year 16Q0oT. Prince
Aranang had earned the gift by helping the local Elves
in deansing a Dark Elf settlement from a network of
deep caves in the hills on the edges of his land, It was
known as the Sword of Frendship, and it was a
wondrous thing to behold - sleck and golden, with
many spells of warning and sharpness woven into it.

ELVEN NAMES

It is not known what form such names take.

Elves have not one but three names, each of which serves a different function in their long lives. Firstly, they
have a commont name, by which they will be known most of the time, especially to other races. Such a name
will not be very fancy, and may be derived from the name of a plant or tree, such as Ash, Hazel or Willow; or
it may be like a nickname, such as Redswift or Hawkeye. The second name is their Eloen namie, by which they
will be known to other members of their race. This usually consists of a first name and a family name;
Redswitt, for example, was known to other Elves as Larel Anorien, The third Is their true name, the name by
which the goddess knows them, and through which they invoke Elven magic. Elves believe that anything
can be controlled if you know its true name, which is why they never reveal theirs to any other living being

2 Meeting Place
3 Empiy Home

4 Hame of Peri Avasar

5 Home af Prince Veriel Brighteve
6 Home of Gelas Eredil

7 Home of Ardual Hellas WOODEN WALKWAY ROPE BRIDGE 13 Home of Tinsel Greystar

STITTLE WOAD

The ELVEN VILLAGE of
EREN DURDINATH

7) 4

5 SAI
i tH
en cy . | th
cade 7 a

*

TTL ‘ait «
pas vat

jae

=>

oie’

SALADS EN Lie) [pease

“

AM GTN (eh ee
Arty tetyitin

8 Home of Volar Keflion

9 Hame of Graha Sleekfoot
10 Hume of Nada Trueshot
Lt Home of Erulsa Falsehope
12 Home of Gays Inune!

PVLCCLASLISAAL

‘THE FORCES OF GOOD 5

Boforethey were defeated, however, the witel-kingof
the Dark Elves cast a cutze onthe family of Prince
‘Aranang, which manifested tselfaround the Sword of
Friendship. Many sho sive the sword were immed-
ately track tha grou asie to possess itatallcosts
‘Getha's brother was killed by the prince himself ater
he had tied to steal i one dark night; couriers and
place guardsmen met simular fats; even theruer of
Ieighbouring country ws Hed attempting to steal
the blade duringa visktoBelisaia’scapta, Theblade
ofthe sword racy turned rom gleaming metal 0
mmateblack, and the runes on its surface slowly
Changed from ones warning against ello ones
encouraging it In great alarm, Prince Gethel returned
the blade tothe Elves, but they could not bear to
approach i and commanded him to eemove i from
that forests immediately. The prince could think of
‘only one course of action: he rode down to the Sea of
Pads, and threw the blades for out ashe could Bat
‘knowing the stony waters ofthat stretch ofcoat the
sword mil one day reappear, beinging IS ghastly
ce witht

ELVEN SETTLEMENTS

‘The Elven peoples today are scattered far and wide
scrss the world, ancare far lest numerous than they
Used tobe. Today thee are few Elven towns rete,
and most Elves ive in small vilages secreted in the
heart of old woodland. Such villages are sometimes
similar to huenan villages, consisting of @ number of
small but exquisitely worked cottages, but many moe
are sll ball in the wadtional syle, on wooden plat-
forms among the treetops, connected t one anather
and the ground by rope ladders and narrow wall
‘ways. Such vUlages ere breathaking. when rst
‘hanced upon, fort seems amazing tht any belngs
‘ould live thei ives perched high above the ground in
‘that manser,

Hwever, you will chance upon an Elven village only
iitsinhabiants have decided that you are nota Uxeat
to it Elves protect their vgs with strong magic
‘Whlch obscures then and makes anyone they do not
‘wish to enter wander around in erles, never abe to
Find them. Qn the fringes oftheir villages, Elves post
{guards who keep thelr eyes and eats pocled for
threatening creatures ~ though according 10 Flves,
humans and other beings unused to vroodiand make
Ser much noise that they can ear them trom several
leagues aay, and rarely need tebe warned of their
‘approach I you enter an Elven forest on a warm
summers ening, however, and ae very careful as
you creep through the undergrowth, yor wil ea the
light voles of Elves, alnging In the distance as they

ELVEN LANGUAGES

Elves spenk twa languages, onc of whlch savory watered-dovn version ofthe thes High Eish sa very
fomplex and couelly language, spoken by Elven nobles and other digaltases. Prayers ar usualy sid ot
Singin Itisaso the langungeof sorcery, andl isa necessity forall serious spell-asters who wish to know
note tha. few explosive party-trcks, a the Elves call most human magic. Common Elis, or La Es,
the language that most Elves speak everyday. Iisalso the language of Spits, Poses, Woedlings and other
foreat rateres ts quite difcl to macter ut you may find itil to pick up a omatteringof ef vou
spend any length of time inthe company of an Elf adventurer, you wil Team a few key phrases ast by

stening to lm ~ especially eurses in combat!

58 TITAN - THE FIGHTING FANTASY WORLD

celebrate the joy of being alive in the beautiful forest
with songs to Erillia, the moon, the stars and every-
thing else they consider beautiful. [tis rare to find such
beauty alive in our savage world today; even battle-
hardened adventurers such as yourself will find
enchantment in the singing of the Elves.

Close to their villages, and usually within the protec-
tion of thelr warding spells, Elves construct shrines to
their goddess; they plant groves of very young trees
and bright forest flowers in her memory, and ~ a
typical Elven practice - wrap small gold and silver
ribbons around nearby branches, and sometimes set
up a small six-sided plinth cut out of pure white stone
and engraved with prayers to Erillia. Should you ever
manage to find such a grove, you will be able to rest
there a while, safe in the protection of the plant
goddess herself,

Humans sometimes have difficulty understanding the
ways of Elves, but that should not stop them appreci-
ating their beauty and strength, They are powerful
beings, but use such things in the service of Good
rather than Evil, a factor which makes the blasphemy
of the Dark Elves even more repulsive. Despite their
occasional slowness, they are an important force in
holding back the powers of Evil. Should you chance to
mect Wood or Mountain Elves in the course of your
travels, you willsoon lear the meaning of friendship,
if you deserve it.

The Lesser Races of Good

Apart from Elves and Dwarfs, there are a few more
inhuman races who serve the cause of Good, thoughit
must be said that some serve it in very strange ways.
They are not only lesser in importance, but they arc
also all smaller in size, even smaller than Dwarfs.
None of them are properly organized into nations, and
they do not have anmnies, but in their own ways they
contribute to the continuation of Good on Titan, and
may be able to offer you some small assistance as you
travel the world,

GNOMES — THE QUIET GARDENERS

Gnomes are strange, prumpy beings related to
Dwarfs, Indeed, it is thought by some scholars that at
one time they actually were Dwarfs of a clan who did
not wish to live in the harsh mountain regions
inhabited by most Dwarfs, and who left to live in
seclusion in the Elven forests. There, it is supposed,
they slowly changed from their original form, becom-
ing shorter and more wizened, and even more with-
drawn than normal Dwars, until they were recogniz-
able as a separate race, the Gnomes.

Whether of not this is true is difficult to say, for
Gnomes are very reclusive and solitary, and have little
time for the affairs of larger beings, However, in the
records of the Elves of the Forest of Yore, which we
consulted over a number of points in our book, a
different story is told. Dwarfs, as you know, are very
wary of magic. True, they use some spells, but these
are very specialized, for casting sharpness into an axe,

or for searching out the purest seams of gold ore deep
undenground — mere cantrips compared to Elven or
even human sorcery, But one clan, the Elven records
say, became fascinated by Elven high magic after
seeing a demonstration of its power from Elven
dignitaries visiting the celebrations for the five-hun-
dredth anniversary of the founding of Fangthane. It
seems that they wanted to know more about magic,
and left the Dwarf capital to wander the world in
search of its source. They found a little knowledge, but
ended up shunned by the Elves; for they were still
rough, unsophisticated Dwarfs. They settled in
isolated parts of the forests, where they could be clase
to the magical powers they lusted for, and gradually
evolved into Gnomes.

Whichever of these tales is correct, it is certain that
Gnomes do know a little magic, and what they know
they are very proficient in. They soon give demonstra-
tions of it to anyone who approaches them, for they
use il to ensure that they are not disturbed. They are
solitary creatures, who secm to like nothing more than
just sleeping in the sun amid the natural splendour of
the Elven forests. But Elves have also seen them
tending plants, trees and forest animals, using other
spells and a good deal of skill. Just as Dwarfs care for
their underground world with a deep intensity and
reverence which humans find hard to understand, it
seems that Gnomes look after the land, albeit in their
own small way. As they are Nature-loving creatures,
they dislike larger beings who they see as destructive
vandals, and they get annoyed even by Elves, who
they feel patronize and talk down to them, when they
deign to talk to them at allt

PIXIES AND WOODLINGS

Both of these forest races, which are related, seem to
be descended from a mixture of humans and Elves,
though somewhere along the line they shrank! Wood-
lings stand about as high as Dwarfs, leading to sugges-
tions thal they are related to them, though this is
extremely unlikely. Woodlings bear little physical
resemblance to Dwarfs; apart from the obvious-— faces,
arms, legs and su on—and their height, they have little
or nothing in common. It is thought that they were
once humans who simply regressed and grew shorter
and shorter, in the isolation of their forest homes.

Pixies are even smaller still, perhaps half the height of
Woodlings. Their pointed ears, woodland habitat and
happy-go-lucky attitudes to life vrould seem to point
to some relation to Elves, though what it is is not
recorded, and there are few theories to explain their
resemblance to the noble race. Pixies themselves do
not know much about their own history. They live
very short lives (no pun intended), their life-span
rarely exceeding thirty years, and they have never
developed writing, so they have no records of the past
history of their race. A few folk-tales seem to talk of 2
time when Pixies lived alongside some taller, more
civilized race of beings, but they give no details, which
is very infuriating to us scholars, who would preder te
know these things.

Both races live in thick woodland, building
villages of huts from wood and leaves. They ame

gardeners, like Gnomes, and tend their parts of the
forest with quiet, but great, fervour. Neither race is
particularly fond of larger beings, for both leant long
ago that such beings seem to delight in tormenting
creatures smaller than themselves, Pixies, in particu-
lar, get picked on by crue] men, who take advantage of
their dislike of Sprites to hold cvil contests in which a
Pixie and a Sprite are released into a ring, while
spectators bet on which one will survive. Woodlings
take their fear of large beings to extremes, however,
and disguise their small villages to blend in with the
background and wear green and brown clothes as
camouflage, to hide themselves away from the atten-
tions of larger beings.

SPRITES, MINIMITES - AND THE
PERILS OF MAGIC

Sprites and Minimites were once thought to be two
separate races, for while they share similar forms (they
are very small winged humanoids), the former are
simple and unsophisticated while the latter are very
clever and civilized. Sprites dwell in woodland areas,
like the other races detailed here, where they live
peaceful lives caring for plants and animals. They area
gentle, timid race, who fear men and other large
beings. They get on well with Elves, however, with
whom they feel a keen affinity, as fellow plant-tenders
and magicians, Sprites seem very smug about the fact
that they can cast a wide range of magical spells,
though in truth these are littke more than cantrips, and
certainly no more sophisticated than those practised
by any aspiring apprentice in his first few weeks of
magical training. The Elves share the Sprites’ delight
in magic, however, and sympathize with their
enthusiasms.

Minimites are far more sophisticated than Sprites, and
they usually do not acknowledge the fact that they are
related. They have a long and detailed history, and

ft Sy a + ie Te
ey aike, oy ee

THE FORCES OF GOOD 55

their culture was once very sophisticated. In the cen-
turies before the War of the Wizards decimated much
of the world, Minimites dwelt alongside men in some
of the great seats of learning in the Old World. There,
the race was recognized as one of great intellect, and
respected for their tireless efforts in collecting, as best
they could, the history of the world. Minimites could
discourse for hours on Brician battle tactics, tell long
sagas about Bjorngrim Giant-slayer or Jinna Arajar the
Hermit, and perform long and very intense magical
tituals. They were easily the equals of men in the
practice of high sorcery, despite their tiny frames, but
they were dedicated to the cause of Good and they
never used it to work ill.

When the Forces of Chaos began seeping out of
Kakhabed, the Minimites were very afraid. News of
the wars raging across Allansia and Khul was
infrequent and terrifying, and everyone began to
suspect that unless something were done the third
continent would be engulfed too, Thelr best scholars
and magicians began the long but necessary task of
searching through their extensive archives and
ancient spell-books for clues to the solution fo this
problem. But after five months nothing had been
found, and the Forces of Chaos were now hammering
at the gates of Analand and Ruddlestone. [n despera-
tion, the Minimites began to frantically hunt through
other, more dubious works.

Ina treatise written by an insane mystic known only as
Aughm Lightchaser, they found what they thought
was an answer. Among, the crazed jottings they found
# long and very dangerous technique which would
summon and unleash the very power of Goodness
itself in one devastating split-second burst of power!
The Minimites had to try. Pooling their resources with
those of the greatest human sorcerers, they gathered
on a peak in Mauristatia to perform their ritual.
Slowly, as they danced and wailed and chanted, they
could hear the Forces of Chaos gathering around the
base of the mountain, called from all over Kakhabad.
The tension rose and rose, the pitch of the chanting
reached Insane levels, the creatures of Chaos howled
bencath them. And suddenly, in a cataclysmic flash,
bolts of golden light flashed from the heavens and
struck the Forces of Chaos, Where they struck home,
they counteracted the power of Chaos, and the two
vaporized each other, [n Jess time than it takes to blink
an eye, most of the Forces of Chaos had been blasted
into their component particles, and the rest were
fleeing back into Kakhabad.

But the victory was not without its cost. The Minimites
who had wielded this wild magic became enamoured
of such power and taught others to lust after it, A
dream arose that Minimites would become the bene-
volent rulers of the world, guiding their subjects by
thelr wisdom and sorcery. Other Minimites, however,
saw that this dream was a dream of tyranny. There
was only one solution: since a single Minimite on his
own has no great magical power, they had to be
prevented from working together, The race became
nomadic, condemned to wander the world, and
prevented by intricate spells woven into the very
fabric of their being from ever joining forces with
others of their kind.
60 TITAN THE FIGHTING FANTASY WORLD

Allies

‘As you travel across the world of Tita in search of
fdventure, you wil quickly come to realize hat the
Forces of Evil and Chaos far outweigh those of Good
Everywhere you go humans sta from humans, Orcs
‘aid Elves, Tellsasall Dwar, ev sorcerers promise
death o everyone. Members of non-human races Uke
wari and Elves maybe able toad you, but hey are
fevrand farbetween, and they havethelzown robles
toa, for Els wying for dominance everyrhere,

Buthereand there, lSindais eepinghereyeon you,
you muy be lucky and find a friend on the road, 0
Someone who canoer youshlle forthe ight. nthe
more settled lands, there wll aksaysbe places for you
to stay in relative safety. But once you ate out in th
wild Tana, you may be very much on your ovn,
unless you can find a few ales. Such allies may crop
‘pin the stangest places, and atthe strange tes,
forthe servants of Good always have to starone jmp
aheadaf the ence in such places, Butalesare these,
Carefully working any at Evil's aluence and tying
to reinstate the cause of Good in lands hich ad
sbandoned i

(COLLETUS THE HOLY MAN

Inthe wildest pars of Kakhabod, for sample, the ast
person you would expect to come across would be 8
Blind holy man, bat in Xamen several adventurers
have had need ofthe services of Colles, He serves
‘Thu, the earth goddess, who is leo the goddess of

healing ~ for Colletus has the power of heliag
disease, granted to him by his goddess for his efforts
‘on her behalf in some ofthe vlldest lands on Titan.

Colles wanders the perilous lands of Kskhabad,
lapping every stop ofthe way with hie staf. How bi
voids being wayaid and killed by the servants El
isastounding iis almost as Chis 3 good that they
fanaot aren im. Tals was planiy not abvays the
‘xs, however, for Cletus was nat boen blind. (ahi
youth, he was an adventurer who saw Esl beginning
{o fester within the fortress of Mampang asthe Arch
‘mage began to ake his ist tntativesteps towards i
tulumate goal of imposing tyranny over the whole of
Kakhabad. The foal soreerer had made pts with
(Orcs, Gobins and the accursed Red Eyes, who were
then starting oral the fee setled pats of Kaaba,
intent on giving good demonstrations o the potential
power of the Archmage a. warning to the leader of
‘ther nearby nations

Coleus, then innocent and umworaly, but fll the
‘courage ofthe young, journeyed tng ed haed, unt
Inecame othe very gies ofthe Fortress of Mampi
Prodaiming that he wished fo pledge hs svoed fo the
‘Archmage: and fight with his armies, he gxined
entrance, and quickly began Finding his way about
Eventually, after two months” exploration af every
aspect ofthe ravestyofife which goeson in that place
‘of Ei he put his plans int operation, He got hse
picked a5 special herald to the Archunage, withthe
Job of bringing im news fom the commanders of his
“amis as they reposted from the furthest comers of
the land. His chance came soos, when many of the

soles of the fortress were repelling an attack from
theSemaritansafSchina, the Bird Man resistance who
had been making quick incand-ot rads aginst th
fetes fr several months, Bursting into the Arch
image's rooms, he surprised the srcerr kneeling in
‘communication with hie foul demonic gods, and
‘without the staff which held mest of his power. The
brave sarior rushed forward, his sword swinging,
around hshead, ready to deliver the blow that would
bring peace to Kakhabad again

Colles had reckoned without the Archmage’s
‘demonic patrons, however. Through the dimensional
fatelinking the sorcerer with the Internal Abyss, they
Fentaball of lack fre, which burst io the room with
8 lash hich blew the Archmage across the room and
blinded Coleus, The warrior stumbled frm the
room, pushing aide the remsins ofthe chareed door,
fnd in panic ran vrithout knowing where he wos
igoing. Eventually he found himself en the desolate
Tacky slopes which lead down from Mampang
‘Wanderingblind, Colletus died through the wider
nes, un he eventually found sanctuary with the
Elven sorceress Fenestra, Underhercarche recovered
his health, though not his eyesight. He became an
inate of Thefts lite while ner, and was granted
the paver of healing theough his hands By the god
‘dessin eu oFhislost sight. Now he wanders Xamnn,
thwarting the Archmage by healing and preaching the
‘word of Tot, saher than by sabolage and vclnce

The sorceress Fenestra, incidentally, isa most unusual
charter, beeause she sa renegade Black lf who has
tured her back on their evil ways and joined her
povrers to those ofthe Forces of Good. She dvells in
Ferlonely house in the hear ofthe Foret of Satta ia
{he Bakdands, here she studies the deeper mystics
of high magicand walzhes over the sueounding ara.
Surprisingly (for an Ei), she used to ive wth her
father algo asorcrer ofsome repute. He waskiled by
the Serpent of Water, one of the demonic Seven

‘THE FORCES OF GOOD 61

Serpents summoned by the Archmage to being yet
more tenor to Kabhabad, and she nove collects ny
rap of information that she can about the infernal
creatures, while ploting hor revenge. She i a great
Sourceof information about allthe northern Baka,
but she is wary of strangers and rarely roceves
visites. Should You ever encounter hee you wil need
{oconvinceherof your goo intentions before youean
safely ak her advice,

Ii seems that your best hope of finding ales against

ies In magicians, for there are sll some who
continue to use thir powers to ight for Good. You
have just heard of Fenesta and Colle who may aid
you tn Kakduad; in Khul, sorcerers suchas Selator
the Green and the famboyant Agravert Peltophas
ray be called upon for aid, though they may roquze
some persuading. And in Allasia, therearethreey ou

SOUTHERN MASK MAGIC

‘TheHHealerspeclie sills se spcilly enchanted
tasks to dia sickness from the body ofthe suf
fere. They workon the principle that every sck-
‘ess of the body isaleo a sickness ofthe soul Each
fof the masko is enchanted to act to a particular
silent, sothing the soul ofthe person who wears
isle the Healer case a spellover theme acre

For a common injury, such as a broken leg, for
‘rample, the sulfeer wears mask nthe frm of a
‘Giant rich hoes back the pain while the ele
‘sels the bones and taps the lg stipe of cloth
soakedin healing salve. Fora moreserlousallment,
Towover, thre are rituals sehich both the Beale
and the slfeer must perform, slowly working a
agi cure together, The curing of heavy curse
‘or the healing of insanity take especally strong,
magic, which ean sometimes damage the patient
Instead of helping hi. Mask magie i erratic, but
ane woke I works well and its the only cure
for ome ailments

62 TITAN —THE FIGHTING FANTASY WORLD

may need to consult thre who at one Hene were all
that stood between Allnsia al oll Chaos, but out
‘of whom only one sil practises high magic.

‘THE STAR PUPILS

Intheheacto the Forest of Yorein the southempartof
selld Alans, near thal sat of leening known as
Silamonis (whee your humble authors reside at his
‘very moment), theres the sehoolaf the Grand Wizard
fof Yore, Founded over hundred and ity years 260
by Vermithrax Moonchaser, then just an ordinary
‘wizard thas trained many gretsoreres though it
Isualkely tobe waning many more, for Meonchaser
is finally nearing the end of his magically extonded
lif, About fity-fveyearsago his asses were blessed
bythe presence of toe tar pupils: Gerth Yaztromo,
the son of a priest from. Salamon: Arkor
Nicodemus, whose father was a rch merchant in
Fang: and Pen Ty Kors pula elle from distant
Arai, whore father was something like Chiet Over
cer of Scrivencts tothe Overpriet Between them
they amazed Moonchaser with their éanate magical
abilties and wilingness to learn even more. Mest
young men who acguite a fe magical spells seem 0
Ependalltheir ime bragging to village irs about heir
mnaing powers, and unaingaroundthe countryside
caring ete and wasting thetrencrles with silly
pranks. But not these thee! From the start they were
heen and attentive, humble and respect inthe face
ofthe Grand Ward's far superion powers, and lly
‘vere ofthe lnltatons o thei own,

‘Eventually there comes atime when a master can
teach his apprentices no move, and they must make
theiroven way ontintothe world toputall he theories
Jno pracce, And so the three left the safety of the
ForertofYore,andsetuttolesmabouttheswoeld, snd
to prove themselves martersorceres. Pen Ty Kora a
short, dagicalinned man who spoke with an unusual
accent and who sed to perform the most peculiar
‘Somnbination of spells, to greatefect travelled south
fgnin, and returned home for a whe, where he
‘became aninitite ofthe temple of theearh goddessin
KaynlesirMa, There he leunt the peculty southern
healing magic, which he took to with great ervoue [a
time healing magic became his epecaity, and a= he
travelled the woe, heading losy bu suely back to
thenorthiands,hebecame known simply 3s he Healer
lathoae wha cime thm for cures

NICODEMUS AND THE DEATH SPELL.

“Meanwhile, Nicodemus had st off into the Flatlands,
‘which were as hatsh in those days as they are nove
[After severe years of extreme hardship, ving. on
rools and anything he could catch, he had slowly
worked Ns way as for a5 the eastern edge of the
Moonstone File. Intending. to stike noch for
Koypang and the exotic ely of Zengis, he began
‘crossing the Moonstone HU, but thee he chanced
Upon great evi which would wventvaly threaten Ks
lia Travelling in the rolling hls, he atrived one
cvening ina small farming village leagues ata from
anywhere The ditizens were gloomy and depressed,
nd did ot welcome him with the normal good
‘humour of country fll

Upon asking the reason, he discovered that a curse
hd come t their ands, Inficted by an evil sharia,
who, they sald, dwelt im cave farther in the hil
‘Once fornight the shaman would come and stand
conterocky eag which overhunghe village, and give
lem the same speech, in which he demanded that
they move away fom the area. immediately. The
citizens of the lage had deeded fram the stat that
thay were not going to let some petty spellcastr tll,
them aehat to do, and had refused to move. But the
shaman retuened with a Inge force of Ores and
Goblins, and showed the fall extent of his power, He
blighted their elds, led their anials, and made
the ky so overcast that nothing woul theve,

[Nicodemus was spurred into ction. Taking on the
form ofa Man-Orc through te use of anillusion spel,
he worked his way inside the caverns ofthe shatnan,
ntl he discovered the reason vehy the evil soreret
wanted the villagers to mave away. Centuries 250,
long before dhe War ofthe Wizards, atari bal hd
taken place at this point between the two Elven
sorceefsand thee ev human necomances, known
asthe Dark Ones. The Elves had won, evenly, and
the ashes ofthe humane were buried in the valley
where the village now resided. But now the ell had
ome down tothe shaman from the ev deities which
he served to make plans forthe resurrection of these
Important servants of heirs.

“Thewarding spells the Elveshad placed on the ground
‘where the foul sorcerers were buried were such that
the spilling of blood (the usual technique for vsureec-
tion) would ruin the aghes, making resurecion
lenpossibe, For this reason the shaman was not ike
ing an armed confrontation with the villagers, which
‘would certainly lead to bloodshed, But nov the vi.
Tagers ad nd enough of being threatened, and of
starvation and ausery, and were preparing tolenve the
village tothe shaman ~ though they were sil very
pusled as to why he wanted it 0 badly, but
Apparently not badly enough to kil them all for in
the usual manner ofthe servants of Eu

As soon asthe lai llgers had fed the title hamlet,
the shaman’s forces (incuing the disguised
Nicodemus) moved In, and began making prepar
tion forthe resection ofthe Datk Ones, The time

‘id under s moonlese night sky the shaman.
farted the lng steal which would culminate inthe
thes reforming into bodes which would then vse
fromthe round: There was an almost angibleecing
of Evil inthe ar, and Nicodemus, watting neat the
font ofthe crowd of Orcs andl Goblin, was sue that
the unesshly spins of some very ell beings were
somehow present

The shaman bogan his dance, walling in 2 tongue
[icodemss had never heard before (the ‘Demon's
‘oie, language ses forall dark magi). The chant
ing of the shaman was joined by thre other voces,
foaming and_Keening, fom beneath the soll
Nicodemus broke from the ranks of Ores, waving a
large jngyedBladed sword as te ran tovards the
shaman, Who ws too favolved in the appreaching,
‘imax of the lua to notice, The sorerer spilt lst
fromend to end with ons alight sleh of the sword,
tind th shamon’s blood soaked the ground. Screams
‘me howling fom the ground, bu hovel faded away,
{Se Nicodems cost spel of purition ave the Blood
$aned sll, The Ore and Goblins, stunned for 3
‘moment bat nove galvanized inaction by the demorie
pit voices tceamingintheirhaads, seamed towards
Fim, bot actully aimed fireballs kept hem ty long,

‘THE FORCES OF GOOD

{A year to the day later, Nicodemus found himself
exploring a ancient ruined temple inthe mide of
the Pagan Pains. In ent Beneath the nave of the
temple, he fund a large black chest, which gave off
potverful raglel entanations, Peshape it was greed
for new magic, perhaps just a natural curonity that
‘used hint fo be less cautious this time. Whatever
‘was, ashe opened thelid af te chest, tect shook
‘with demonic laughter and thre smoky black shapes
‘Switledand solid, untLin frontof im stood tee
coved figures, anda pret aura fei filed the ype
‘The cerita figure spoke: ‘At as, ArakorNicoderts,
‘Weare revenged on you! You wil nt escape a Death
spelt

[Nicodemus gaze in hore atthe runes engraved on
the inside ofthe chee’ il, Thecowled figures ofthe
DDemonicServants faded nto tin at and already the
wizard could fel a sickening trembling startin is
bones, Fleving fom the temple, beheaded east, mak
Ing forthe Detar town of Stonebridge, where he had
Isstheaed elf histllow sorcerer, the Healer. there
‘ras anyone on this world vite could hep im now,
‘must be him. The Hesler was not at Stonebridge, but
the Dwarf told im that he was heading for Fong
Niodentus borrowed a horse and galled north
cross the plains, his every joltechoedby the panicked
thumping of his falling heart. After three days’ hard
fide, pausing only to swap his exhausted hove foe
fresh ne ata smal farm he passed the dying sorcerer
‘caught up with his old colleague, ashe was eying on
hhands in the market-square of the village of Anvil

Pen Ty Kor tokone look at is end, nso nearto
death andsworeunderhis breath, Hele be shaking
[Ncodemus out ofthe vllge and on To the pla
Holding his end upg he pnt tthe lowing
peakol Fctop Mountnin ny tothe east.There, my
fend, ie twit fo the da the eae ak
bse Alterthrehours of desperate strug the
patrrivedatthefoatfthemountl, and began the
bsg pint lbotscendngtothetop When hey at
test reached the summit, the Healer pile! large
tmask shaped ike the sun om ipo, and plod
Upon the head of his lend, wha by now had gone 8
pholy white, as Death's canany hand began to
Sjuecze ever suonger on spt The Healer bean
itl

‘At dawn, the aun rose pally slowly, but asits ays
touched his body, Nicodemus sat up and yawned,
sing he had dreamt ofa phoenix which cared his
Soul back to the land of the living. He was alive
[Nicodemus had chested the vengeance of the Dark
‘Ones and hele done master,

Dut this tne the Healer was not spared thee wrath,
He was stack down, within a Weck, with an extra
ontinary disabling allment which disfigured his body
tnd nade hs every mover agonizing, The Heal
fed the sold of men and became a reise, hiding
bimeelf ina lonely cave on the fingce of the lotinge?
Mountain, Ha sll her oday,heipingthesick and
the injured, but refsing o see anyone who dows not
requte his services, Doth Nicodemus and Yszttomo

ve visited i, but both tes he refused to sce
them. you nd yourelin the northern lands nin

64 TITAN —- THE FIGHTING FANTASY WORLD

desperate need of a healer, youcan be given directions
to his cave by anyone — but do not expect his aid if you
do not require healing.

Nicodemus himself went on to have many more
adventures, being called upon several times to thwart
the plans of the servants of the Forces of Evil. Eventu-
ally, however, he tired of constantly being asked to
sort out the problems of the world, and went into
retizement In the decadent vermin-pil known as Port
Blacksand, the City of Thieves, Why he did this we
will probably never know — it is certainly unusual for
such a servant of Good willingly to settle In such a den
of Evil, unless there is some very good ulterior motive.
Perhaps he is just keeping an eye on Azzur for
Yaztromo? But what of Yaztromo during all this?

YAZTROMO, DARKWOOD’S KEEPER

When he left the school of the Grand Wizard of Yore,
Yaztromo initially returned home to Salamanis which,
although close to his school, he had not seen in
fourteen years. There he set himself up as a com-
mercial sorcerer, selling charms and potions from his
home half the time and spending the other half
researching in the extensive libraries of Salamonis,
which date back to long before the cataclysmic War of
the Wizards. He learnt much about the magics of other
lands and other races, but eventually wander-lust took
* him, and he set off on his travels. Over the next few
years, his wanderings took him across the whole of
settled Allansia, from the border between Chiang Mai
and Kaypong to the southernmost fringes of the
Southern Plains, from Oyster Bay and the ruins of
Balkash to Trolltooth Pass and the edge of the
Flatlands.

Everywhere he travelled, he saw the cruel hand of Evil
pulling the strings in the background, and he was
sorely troubled, for he could see no way of ever being
able to fight more than a small portion of it. For a long
while he considered simply hiring a boat and setting
sail for new lands, but in the end decided that this was
a@ very cowardly thing to do. If the gods had granted
him the power of sorcery, he thought, he should make
the best use of it.

It was while he was reflecting on such matters that he
passed by the fringes of Darkwood Forest, the wild
mass of ancient woodland south of the Dwarf village of
Stonebridge. It was the month of Hiding, and the cold
weather was just beginning, but it was still pleasant to
walk beneath the stars of dusk. As Yaztromo strolled
on, his staff swinging in time with his steps, a warm
mist suddenly closed in, All around him, the bizarre
shapes of the trees loomed through the greyness, but
Yaztromo was not afraid: he had his magic to protect
him, which he would chance against any supernatural
horrors the forest could set against him!

All of a sudden, however, he gave a start. Floating
down the breeze came the sound of screaming ~ and
something was burning. He ran through the tangled
undergrowth of the forest for a few minutes, and came
to a dearing in which a dozen or so Elven huts stood,
all of which were ablaze. Dark shapes flitted between
the trees, and although he had never seen them in the

fiesh before, he knew exactly what they were — Dark
Elves! Needing no further goading into action,
Yaztromo charged into the fray, fire blazing from his
staff. That night he killed eight of the ghoulish Dark
Elves, and won the immediate respect and admiration
of the Wood Elves of Darkwoad. In the days following
the attack, the sorcerer stayed with the Elves, and
learnt everything he could about life in the forest.
Much of it seemed idyllic to Yaztromo, not unlike the
Forest of Yore of his apprentice days, and he half-
considered setting up his own magic school here.

But there were great problems, and greater dangers
lurking in parts of the forest. Despite its beauty, it was
a perilous place for many of its inhabitants, and it really
needed the protection of someone who could watch
over it at all times. Yaztromo pondered upon the
problems of Darkwood at length, and as his brief stay
with the Wood Elves turned into six months, and then
a year, he slowly came to the conclusion that he really
wanted to stay there, and be the one to Jook after it.

As soon a3 he had had the honesty to admit this to
himself, he felt much better, and immediately visited
the Dwarfs of Stonebridge to ask them to help him
build a tower near the southern end of the forest. King
Gillibran and his subjects were very sceptical of
Yaztromo‘s dealings with Elves, but they liked the
wizard, and thought his staying close at hand was a
great idea. Work was started, and soon completed
with the help of a little magic, and Yaztromo moved
into his tall, white tower within the year.

He still dwells there; indeed, he rarely leaves the tower
any more, except when something very serious_is
brewing. News is brought to him by the birds and
animals of the forest, who come and tell him all that
they have seen throughout the day, He also has a pet
crow, called Vermithrax after the Grand Wizard, who
carrics messages to and from the Dwarfs of Stone=
bridge or the Elves of the forest. Everyone in the forest
knows him, and most respect him and the strength of
his magic, The Darkside Elves, however, tend to think
of him only as a harmless fool, so he has been able to
keep a keen eye on their movements. Indeed, he keeps
regular tabs on most of what goes on in this corner of
Allansia, and exchanges messages with Nicodemus in
Blacksand, and with many other informants besides.

He has restarted his business selling small magical
items, in an attempt to gain money to satisfy his one
major vice: the old wizard loves sugared cakes, which
he orders from all over when he has the money to buy
them, which is not as often as he would like!

Should you ever find yourself in the area and in need
of assistance, you will find his tower set just off the
path at the southernmost extent of Darkwood. It is an
impressive affair, built in white stone with a massive
oaken door. [t has a great many chambers, including
an observatory and several cellars designed for magi-
cal experiments, but eccentric old Yaztromo spends
most of his time in the study-cum-library, which is
always overflowing with books, papers, magical
paraphernalia, animals, birds and much, much more—

there is barely enough room for his favourite old oak
armchair!

‘THE FORCES OF GOOD «

\
|
J 5
r= Vik & DOAN Ba
1 anf
f\ i mt
i al
Ti ei
z ‘iN
lt
kas
rene 2
sal
ibd ce | vee
ta \"

TEINS
66 TITAN — THE FIGHTING FANTASY WORLD

THE NEUTRAL FORCES

Between the Forces of Good, which are few in number
but determined of purpose, and the Forces of Evil and
Chaos, which are numcrous but disorganized, there
are the Neutral Forces. Well, they cannot really be
termed Forces as such, for they have no real armies,
and often prefer to use those of other people to do their
work for them, if they wish it done at all, that is. For
there are, in fact, two types of Neutral; the people you
encounter may be one or the other. They may be
followers of the Trickster gods, led by Logaan, the
creator of man, who try to offset Good and Evil against
each other, eventually to balance the two. Alter
natively, they may have opted out of allegiance to
either side, and prefer to remain aloof from the world
and all its problems. This secand type have no gods,
no allies and few philosophies; they have simply
turned their backs on the world. Both factions may
give you great help, or may hinder you terribly, almost
according to their whims; as a result, you should be
very wary of Neutral beings.

The basic philosophy of the Tricksters and their fol-
lowers is simple, but it operates on a grand cosmic
seale that is hard to grasp, Whatever happens, they
say, the universe will survive only if the powers which
pull it this way and that are balanced: tou great a shift
one way or the other will tear the fabric of the cosmos
and the world will end, Therefore, whenever one side
iS in a very strong position, the Tricksters will cither
lend their aid to the opposing factions and hinder the
stronger side, or they will live very dangerously by
pushing the stronger side to even better positions, in
the hope that the underdog will fight back and restore
the balance. For all their apparently frivolous tricks
and jokes, the followers of luck and chance are actually
very serious followers of the balance of Good and Evil.

Lord Logaan the Trickster

As you know, Logaan the Trickster was one of the
gods of the Celestial Court, Although different
cultures call him by other names (which include
Ranjan and Akolyra), and give him different forms {a
woman or a mischievous cat seem to be the most
common, though there are many others), all scem
certain that it was he who first created intelligent
beings when he made Man and Woman during the
Godtime. Such universality is surprising, for it occurs
in few other areas of mythology; such instances are
usually taken to mean that the event described by the
myths definitely did not happen.

Logaan is a strange god, for he has no recognized
parents or relations among the hierarchy of the
Celestial Court, whereas even Death has his brothers,
Disease and Decay, One might have at least expected
Logaan to be related to Sindla, the goddess of luck, for
their domains overlap, but this is not so. However, in
the writings, statues and symbols of his devoted
worshippers, he Is jolned by a pair of mysterious

figures, known as Kata and Petros. These two are
usually depicted as faceless, robed humans who stand
flanking Logaan, pulling him this way and that -
obviously symbolic of the way in which Logaan him-
self pulls the Forces of Good and Evil this way and
that. Logaan is portrayed in many different guises,
like all gods, but in his most common human form he
is Short and misshapen, like a down, with bandy legs
and a strange expression on his face. His hair is wild
and his garments appear not to fit — but in his eyes
there is always a look of extreme seriousness.

The other gods of Titan appear only in very serious
mythological tales, but Logaan also crops up in many
popular folk-tales. They are always set on the Earthly
Plane, either just before or just after the other gods
leave following the First Battle, and they always sccm
toend up with him playing tricks on someone who has
been pompous, cruel or foolish. Many of the tales also
explain how the Trickster discovered writing, or fire,
or the wheel, or smoking-weed, or whatever. And
although Logaan is always the hero of the talc, he
often makes himself appear foolish too.

A typical folk-tale of this sort is Logaan ard the Troll,
which is a popular bedtime story told by farmers and
woodsmen to their children in many different lands:

Lagaan is wandering through the countryside when he
comes to a village, there everyone is very sad. Wher
fre asks tohy, they teil him that a big, evil Troll comes
down into the village every night and carries some of
then off to cat. The Troll lites it a croe int the hills,

where he Irides during the day, because Trolls adtor't
like the sar, tohich blirds them with its brilliance.
Logann climbs up into the hills, and finds tie Troli’s
cate, witick smells a great deal and is quite repulsive.
Then he takes @ rope, mikes a lasso, and throws it
into the air several tinnes wntél it catches Srold of
Glantanka, the sun goddess, as she circles the sky. He
pulls and pulls with all his might, ahl she is down
on the ground, protesting like aything about being
dragged out of the sky and threatening all Kinds of
puntisheneris when sie gets free. Logaan ignores her,
and sticks a large sark aver her head, Imienestintely it és
night-time.

In Iris cree, the Troi] stands up with a yxun,
muttering fo himself about how quickly the day went
by. Gathering up Jus club, tre Troll sets off for the
village, but no sooner is he out of his cave Har
Logaart opers the sack and relaises te rope frome
Glantaika. The sum goddess shoots up inte the sky
agin, and Wie Troll fowls in prin and drops his club
as he slaps his hands weer his eyes. Logaa picks snp
his club, and bashes tie Troll's head in, before
dragging ifs ciranss dowur th the village and tis
cheering inhabitants,

As he wonlks anew from the village varly the mext
mornitg, howevrr, after a night of celebration,
Glantanka the sus goddess loaks down ont hime from
the sky, and frurls @ fireball at him, which singes hom
ail over, causing the villagers endless amusement...

Servants of the Tricksters

Such folk-tales show up the frivolous side of the
Tricksters, Dut there are more serious sides, as can
sometimes be seen in the actions of their ernissaries on
the Earthly Plane. Those who serve the Tricksters can
be deadly adversaries, for they work solely for the sake
of balancing out Good and Evil - and if you are
working for the side of Good when you encounter
them, they may well react to you like servants of Evil!

The Netherworld Sorcerers of the Northlands of the
Old World are servants of Logaan and the other
Tricksters; they are noted both for their great powers
at high magic and for their seemingly arbitrary
bestowal of gifts or curses. [t was they, for example,
who created the powerful Ting Ring, which they gave
to the nobles of Gallantaria, The ring bestows all kinds
of special abilities on its wearer, depending upon the
circumstances. If it is worn in battle, for example, it
will protect its wearer from the effects of blows; if worm
while hunting, it will instil the ability to track game; it
can protect you from the effects of foul undead
creatures, or tell you that there is poison in your cup!

THE NEUTRAL FORCES 67

Such magical artefacts are typical Trickster items,
changing from one thing to another, depending on
what is wanted. ‘The Ting Ring is also imbued with a
typical Trickster joke: it has a chameleon-like power
which causes it to blend in with its background, and
several emergencies have been caused in Royal Lendle
by noblemen who thought they had lost the riny!

But it was also the Nethenvorld Sorcerers who con-
jured up the accursed Demon Fish which threatencd
the coast of the Onyx Sea for some years. [t was a
gigantic creature, larger than a warship, and would
tear apart vessels and swallow fishermen whole. The
fish was finally caught by the hero who solved Tan-
talon’s tasks and became ruler of Gallantaria, but not
before it had terrorized the coast and many fishermen
had lost their lives. Why the Sorcerers inflicted such a
beast on the coast we may never know,

We also know very little about the Sorcerers them-
selves. They are an ancient race, it is believed, who
were dwelling in their remote towers in the North-
lands for many centuries before man scttled there; and
they dwell there still. As to their numbers, or any
further details about their life-styles, your guess is as
good as anyone's, for they keep themselves hidden
from the view of others. From their lofty homes,
however, they obviously keep a vigilant watch over
the whole of the western continent. When they see
Evil or Good getting too much of an upper hand they
interfere a little, to ensure that everything balances up
in the end,

The Riddling Reaver is another unusual servant of the
Tricksters, Legend says that he dwells somewhere
amid the jungles of southern Allansia, ina place where
all the normal rules have been disregarded — where
water no longer flows downwards, where lrees seem
not to need soil, but float free in the air, and so on.
Wherever he actually has his residence, however, he is
most often seen aboard his enormous ship, in which
he sails around the world to carry out his tasks.

The Reaver is said to be a master of disguise, able to
transform himself into just about anyone or anything
ina matter of minutes; he often uses such disguises to
get close to his ‘victims’. He is also a very puzzling
being, for he delights In leaving enigmatic rhymes
behind him wherever he goes — hence his name. He
seems to have almost limitless powers to draw on in
his tasks of bringing confusion and balance to the
world. Where he actually originates from is anyone's
guess. He may be a human being blessed with peculiar
powers by his equally peculiar gods, or he may be a
Supernatural being sent by the Tricksters to work
special missions on the Earthly Plane, perhaps where
a Genie — the usual Trickster emissary — would not be
subtle enough.

THE RUNES OF THE TRICKSTERS

The Tricksters use two runes, which encapsulate the
basic principles behind their alignment. One is an
arrow pointing in both directions, symbolizing the
balance of Good and Evil. The other is a star, which

ts in all directions — it means, quite simply, that
absolutely anything can happen!

68 TITAN THE FIGHTING FANTASY WORLD

Few non-human races worship Logaan the Tekst
asavidlyassome humans do, bu there areraces who
com to follow. hla The. peculiar Elvins of the
Shamutanti Hills in Kakhabed (¢he small, leike
creatures, not the largesea monster ofthelnland Sea,
‘which have the same name) certainly profess war-
hip the Tricksec, who they see as ahurloving god
‘wh kes nothing moze than playing ticks on people
llday. Evins have s lange repertoire of tak then
Selves which they spend most of theirtime peeecing
Sx the expense of some olher poor erature,
sabia

Leprechauns, too follow the mischievous path ofthe
‘rickstere ~ indeed, some folk cal them Lognan’s
Ghldten in hamour ofthe fat that they are always
plying. praca jokes on people, Unlike Elvin,
however, who only play ticks for amusement,
Leprechouns use them 0 say live; they steal and
cheat feed or money out of thei victims! Indeed they
fanbecome qulte violent hey badly need something
fromsomeone.Thisisnot relly tet thespirit of he
‘Trickstrs as such, however, and many new beliove
that the Leprechauns simply share many affilies
with other servants ofthese god rather than being
proper servants of them. Its tue that Logaan's ticks
eeoften violent, bt heir purpose is aaly to sta or
heat others except when todo sos partofthejoke,
that,

The Animal Court

For many centuries the knovledge that the many
ferent exetures which oom the surface of Tan
‘worshipped deities was convenient forgotten, The
animals priests argued, wereignorantof the beauty of
the gods and goddesses, and lived thee lives con
pletely unaware that there was more toexistence than
Simply. Swimming. about ia the seo, soaring on
thermal high abore the and, or talking the plains in
search of prey. Such a view aleo ‘proved quite com
‘sively that animals didnot have souls, ahd heee-
fore man was supreme, greater than any bess! The
tendtional espontsetosucha pompousargument ay
ral have been “Mas not an animal? You haven't
‘een my husband! butt Blinded many cltarestothe
048 of the Animal Court

Animals and thle gods folloe an alignment which is
rather diel to categorize, but which s sometimes
Enown as True Neutra, which ew we are includ
nga eve dota of at this junctre Ulsablind bei,
and an unintelligent one, frit seks ony tohelp the
‘ace of the parcular animal, and disregards wat
happens ocother beings. Every creature an Tian was
made by a god during the Godtime, when the world
‘Wasfllad with the erations they made from the magic
‘day found by Throffiner garden. These gods did not
‘imply disappear, they Gecame the gods of the
animals, and sit atthe Animal Cour, where they ae
indferent to anything but the contined survival of
their own spctes, no matter what the cos fo Last oF
(Chaos across the cosmos.

‘This atitude hasbeen expllted on a few acasions,
‘where cestures suchas wolves and spidershave been
persuaded to take part in weighty conflets, becnase
thelr gods were persuaded tht todo so would be to
the advantage of the species However, being True
‘Neutral, animals rarely ool seyret i they have to
<ouble-cross the ales an change sides fort all
justi by being goed forthe future of the species,

‘The gods ofthe animals are ocasionally worshipped
by mien and some of the inhuman races. Primitives
stich as Marah Goblin and Neandertals worship the
ods of the Court simply Because they are large,
Povrerfulmonstrs with theabilty to cause gret pain,
Sutloring and destiction,

(others, however, deste o call upon the help of such
‘restures in Hie of need, and to et closer to the
‘animals with which they share thei ives. The horse
hhomadsof he Flatlands, for example, arewershippors
‘of Ex, but they azo pa allegiance to Hunnyhaay he
Stallion god, and proy that he will protct both his
horses and their rider ~ for if the nomads were
allowed to fll inte the hands of their enemies the
Trses would suffer as well, itevercame toa choice
between ehether a horse nomad followed the side of
ull or the side of Hunaynhaa, he would always
choose the latter na simular way, some Orcs give
offerings to Almor, the woflord, especially in view of
{hehelp he was ticked into giving the Forces of Chaos
at the Fist Bate, where he served alongside the
‘hampion of the Orcs,

‘There are even some sorcerers who are obsessed with
the study and protection of animals to such an exten
thatthey toobegintobecomeeatiined in the worship
fof the Animal Court. One hears many stories of
Hlrdagag Greenfinger, who mace the study of oles
his life's werk, He would often be seen by intrgned
passersby, lying on the grassy forest foot, his head
stuck insidea molehll, observing the fascinating ie
creatures at werk! He laaent more and more about
‘moles, of which he had at frst intended to make only a
very bref study. he lait moze, he became more

‘THE NEUTRAL FORCES 6

fascinated by them, for he had never realized that
animals and other creatures had almost as sophist-
filed 9 culture as mans did! Eventually, the
‘soncere’s curiosity to know evrything got the bet
‘ot him, ant he moved under the ground to lve with
the motes in thelr tunnels Such le the danger of
obsession and the quest for knowledge!

Rather than go into every animal cul in detail, whieh
‘would be tedious inthe extreme, we have simply
Alevised the following tablet shov you the names
and relations ofall the members ofthe Animal Cour.

Biers
a noobs ode bes ans
pe. Ee eee
srry
bs wom acs as
a a a
ae i
I |
alins guess seuss stats
Ps ea
dite egos otiedihweaisomentenst ls waas
‘ante eur but tne names nd rls irene
Metis Snel by hose a)

70 TITAN — THE FIGHTING FANTASY WORLD

THE FORCES OF EVIL AND CHAOS

So, brave adventurer, you now know of the Forces of
Good, who may offer you aid and friendship to lighten
the burden of your quest, You also know of those
factions undecided one way or another, the Neutral
Forces, who may rattle a dagger in your ribs as easily
as assist you. And you know of those allegiances that
change with the wind, or sa it seems — the Tricksters
who will offer bread with one hand and take it away
with the other, for ever playing their part in some
almighty cosmic joke. All this you now know.

Let us turn our attention ta the many horrific aspects
of Evil and Chaos, from the blind, stupid hatred of the
inhuman races ~ Orcs, Goblins, Trolls and Ogres — to
the infinitely subtle schemings of the awesome
Demon Princes. Know the weaknesses of your for and
your battle is half-won, they say in Analand; so study
your adversaries carefully, Wherever he journeys in
the wilderlands of this warld, a pure-hearted adven-
turer will find the ranks of Evil arrayed against him,
but by heroic and noble deeds he will win through to
his goal, Wherever you find Evil or the warped mock-
eries of Chaos, be it on the field of battle or festering in
some lightless pit, you must be ready, with sharpened
sword and steady hand, to cleanse it from this world.

The Dark Lords of Chaos

The vile Ores and Goblins are ruled over by their
chieftains and shamans, who in turn give allegiance to
a ghastly array of unearthly Demons. Ruling over the
motley ranks of Demons are the Demon Princes, with
their horrible perversions of courtly behaviour and
chivalry. This you may know already, but few mortals
have ever known much about the even more powerful
deities who nule over Evil, even in the depths of Hell-
the Dark Lords of Chaos.

Go far beyond Titan, beyond the Elemental Planes and
the blasphemous Demonic Planes, beyond even space
and time. There, at the heart of the Void, dwell the
Dark Lords. They were imprisoned here at the Dawn
of Time by the united might of the Forces of Good after
the First Battle. Some are remembered in remote,
savage corners of the world — such as Slangg, god of
malice, still worshipped in the depraved city of Kharé
— but most have passed from the short memories of
mankind and are studied in secret only by the most
ambitious of necromancers. It was once inferred by an
insane seer that the Dark Lords numbered twenty-
three in all, though this has never been verified.

The Dark Lords are thought, in their basic state, to be
formless, shadowy beings, little more than hyper-
intelligent manifestations of pure evil emotion. Some
do take on more material forms for special visits to the
various Planes of existence, but since their imprison-
ment it costs them dearly in energy, so that fortunately
they can never reveal their true power on Titan.

Others have had physical forms imposed on them by
overzealous worshippers who wished to build
statues in what they believed to be their image. But
there are thought to be some who never give any
indication of their presence — though proving or dis-
proving this will require the efforts of an eternity of
sects and philosophers!

The First Lord of Chaos is Death, who holds the entire
universe in his cruel grasp. It was he who imposed on
the world of Titan the duom of Time and the decree
that things may cease to exist, in direct opposition to
the gods of Good, who can only create and mould, but
never destroy. In different lands Death has many
names and many forms. To the rugged warriors of
Frostholm in the far north, he is known simply as the
Closer or the Finisher, and takes the form (in their
legends) of a mighty black Giant who wields an axe
forged from the metal of night. To the nomads of the
Scythera Desert of southern Khul he is Krsh, the
sound of a man’s last breath, and he comes as an
invisible hand to choke and strangle in the night.
Every land has its own stories, traditions, names and
images of Death, but all men fear his inescapable grip.

Other known Dark Lords include Disease, known as
the Festering Lord in some far western lands. His
brother is Decay, prince of insects and mould and all
that rots, worshipped in southern Khul by the beggars
and lepers of the foul city of Shakuru. They, in turn,
are served by lesser nobles, who rank alongside the
Demon Princes in the order of things, the various
kings and lords of the insect races. These include
Arhallogen, Jord of spiders, worshipped by the
degenerate primitives of the southern Allansian
jungles; and Hmurresh, queen of the flies, who dwells
on the Elemental Plane of Air, from where she dis-
patches her subjects to bring plague and pestilence to
all corners of the world.

The deities worshipped in Kakhabad as Slangg, god of
malice, and his sister Tanit, goddess of envy and
jealousy, are thought to be related to many of the gods
of Good; but it is said that because they sided with the
Forces of Evil during the First Battle, they were exiled
and fled to join the Dark Lords in the Void. The priests
and scholars of other lands may dispute these beliefs,
if they know of them at all, but in Kharé unlucky
people are still said to suffer ‘the grace of Slang’. In
the weird temples of the Cityport of Traps, spiteful
citizens give offerings to Slangg and Tanit and implore
them to bring their vengeance down upon others. The
former is depicted as a grossly fat man with the forked
tongue of a snake, typically posed whispering an aside
behind his hand. His sister is more sinisterly
portrayed as an astounding beautiful woman, dressed
in a macabre hat, veil and long black robes, with a
wicked curved dagger held behind her back and a
cruel smile on her perfect lips.

The Dark Lords are served by the Demon Princes of
the Pit, though somewhat reluctantly in some cases,
since the Princes are arrogant beings — asall princes are
— and do not serve others willingly. Some Lords use
the Princes as their agents to work great Evil upon the
Earthly Plane. Most, however, use subtler means, and
work by suggestion and inspiration alone. Such is the
influence of Death upon the Demon Princes. The First
Lord sets perverted Ideas to twist and writhe within
thelr warped minds and affords them moments of
extreme pleasure when they put another army, city or

THE FORCES OF EVIL AND CHAOS

country to the sword, Death is the puppet-master who
guides the scaly hand of Evil and Chaos, using its
servants to bring about his ultimate aim — the enslave-
ment or eradication of all life in the world.

The Demon Princes, Masters
of the Pit

Death is the most deadly of all masters and his chosen
servants are dangerous in the extreme; the Demon
Princes are his chosen servants. They are immortal
monstrosities who rule over the Demonic Plane, using
insanity, depravity and true Chaos lo perpetuate their
reign over the Forces of Evil and Chaos. Where they
came from, no one dares say for certain, but in the
years before the War of the Wizards, the highest
scholars believed that they were the caplains and
commanders of the evil armies in the First Battle.
Many troups on both sides were slain when Death set
foot on the world for the first time, but enough
escaped, it seemed, and retreated to the outer Planes
of existence. These are now known collectively as the
Demonic Plane, though in truth there are many levels;
their teeming inhabitants just call it the Pit.

The fords and masters of the Pit are the Demon
Princes, Seven in number, they are the most evil,
corrupt, depraved and Chaotic beings ever to have set
foot on the Earthly Plane since the birth of Time. The
seven are informally split into two groups: the trio of
terrifying fiends known to some as ‘Snake Demons’,
Ishtre, Myurr and Sith; and the ‘Night Demons’,
Kalin, Relem, Shakor and Vradna. The former are the
true rulers of the Abyss, and are served on occasion by
the other four.

THE PRIESTS OF SLANGG AND TANIT

The bizarre deities of Kharé in eastern Kakhabad
are served by equally bizarre priests. Those who
serve Slangg, the god of malice, dress in robes dyed
bright orange and shave their heads, Unlike other
holy men, they always carry a vast array of wea-
pons and Instruments of torture, for part of their
ritual duties is the perpetuation of hate and vio-
lence against non-worshippers. To this end they
burn down temples, put whole congregations to
the torch and slaughter many innocent and nat-so-
innocent citizens — all in accordance with the rules
preached by their deity, Tanit’s priestesses are
much subtler, working through delicate intrigues
and carefully planned set pieces, When worship-
ping, they dress in the same robes as their goddess,
but normally they work in the community, as it
were, sowing the seeds of jealousy and envy
among husbands, wives and lovers, always work-
ing to divide and frustrate, and subvert the work of
the servants of Asrel, goddess of love and earthly
happiness.

=

72 TITAN — THE FIGHTING FANTASY WORLD

The three ruling Princes sit together in judgement over
the souls of the damned, in the Palace of Agony at the
very centre of the Demonic Plane, Ostensibly they rule
by combined strength of will, but in truth they argue
and disagree so often that it is only when two side
together against the third that any decisions arc actu-
ally made, Once every few centuries, thelr bickering
and sniping gets out of hand, and a bloody civil war
Tages across the Pit, with hundreds of thousands of
souls engaged in pitched battles to establish which
Demon wasin the right (or rather, in the wrong!), Each
of the satanic trio is served, albeit very haphazardly,
by one of the Night Demons, who captain their armies
and act as right-hand Demons for the duration of the
civil war. Currently, however, Sith is being served by
both Relem and Vradna. Several decades ago this was
to Her Disgusting Majesty's benefit, as each led their

half of her forces to greater and greater extremes to
prove his superiority over the other. Now, however,
the spark of unhealthy competition has dimmed, and
they fight more against each other than against the
armies of Kalin or Shakor.

Sith is rather ignorant of the fighting among her own
troops, belng far more concerned with the fortunes of
her chosen servants on the Earthly Plane, the Caarth
(the desert-dwelling Snake People). Despite her
exhortations, the power of the vile reptilians ls wan-
ing, and the various Lizard Man races who worship
her princely rivals Ishtra and Myurr are on the
ascendant. Sith’s powers on Titan may be waning, but
she still reigns in the Pit, though only through very
careful manoeuvrings, diplomacy, intrigues and
assassinations.

TYLNIIWATA « & »

fo ANY’ld

*&»* HINVI

IWLNINGTA* Y -

the

Demonic

Although the three Snake Demons govern the Abyss
from the ornate blood-diamond thrones of the echoing
Jeaggue-wide Ruling Hall of the Palace of Agony, they
each possess their own retreats too, Sith dwells in a
castle built entirely from snake scales, perched upon
the edge of a seemingly bottomless ravine near the
centre of the Plane of Steel. Its design uses such a
strange, inhuman geometry that a mortal mind would
be driven completely insane just by looking upon it -
not that a mortal mind would have survived the brain-
warping journey through the outer Ievels of the Pit to
reach it!

Her Satanic Majesty, Sith, Demon Prince of the Abyss,
is probably the most violent and sadistic of all the
Demons -— and, as any respected scholar of
demonology will tell you after making the appropriate
prayers, that is really saying something! [n her natural
form she is even more disgusting than when in her
‘earthly’ shape (‘a greenish-black, snake-headed,
four-armed, bat-winged, three-metre-tall monstros-
ity’, as one enudite tome puts it). Perhaps four metres
tall, maybe a metre wide, she takes on the body and
tail of an immense snake, the torso of a beautiful
Giant woman, six daw-tipped arms, and a hissing
nightmare of a head which is half-way between a
woman's and a viper’s,

Her unceasing lust for the violent death of ather
beings knows no bounds, and many poor souls have
been slaughtered simply because she slithered out of
the wrong side of her pit that morning. There is
nothing she likes more than slowly stripping a living
creature of its insides, through small punctures in its

Plane

LVM fo INV ld

Ong is cece il te

A»

PLANE FIRE

LEMENTAL

ae

ee

skin, by suckingand sueping unt the husks empy:
Though sometimes shen she is fn 2 huery she wil
‘imply ule arms of something and munch away
[ikea Demons, she doesnot actually new feat, but
shelovesto fel thewaves of anguish ana pain coming
froma dying creature, Sith feels affection foronly one
thing her pet python, Sussussurr. Ataly awesome
beast, Sussussurr Is over twenty metres long and a
rate thick: he i the immoral son of Versa,
‘queen of snakes, who dwells in the thickest, most
‘emote gles of Titan,

lehtra and Murr are no match fr Sth when iteomes
to pure crulty, but each has his own special facts.
[shir wually thes themodestform ofa pot headed,
Inumanotdcrocecile, though when he wishes 10
‘impress someone, of makers point duting an arg
ment, he reverts fo a raging ll of energy, spilling
Slreumsof electrical sparks inal directions, His great
love i fre, andthe strange buening effect thas on
contac with lesser Ieforms! Of the three, Myre fs
the sublles such aterm could ever be applied tothe
vilest beings in existence), and. prefers to work
Tough les, cumours and ther forme of deceit He
Iypiclly takes the form of an enormous toad, oF
somtimes appenrs as 4 meet, innocent litle boy
‘who just happens tohave the oldest eyes ever opened
Upon the world. Myure spends nore ofhistneon the
Enahly Plane than any of the Demon Prince, in

‘THE FORCES OF EVIL AND CHAOS 73,

Alsguise or inating the mind ofan influential leader
tr adser, working azaleas to proce a mich
Ssnarehy and destruction a he can

DEMONIC ENTERTAINMENT AND.
‘THE WILD HUNT

Despite their perpetual dilferences, squabbles and
éruel and violent wat, the Demon Princes and thei
favoured minions frequenty gather together to take
pattn iguntc banquets. Heceyoumight find several
‘Bousand undead beings, sprawled and shumped at
tables covered by curious Blond-red clothe wilt the
texture of aye skin, and pile high with ll manner
of dead, semdead and very-muchalivefoodstll
‘The stomacl-churning, food fantcally gbbers,
squeals and scutes unt eaught art exten by the
‘obnoxious revellers, Some ders get so excled thal
they start to feast upon their Fellow guests!

For entetainment there are the merry antics of
torturers, who gleefully fay new arsivals te produce
the most exquisite sl; the Demot-spavin jugglers
‘who mutate endlessly and juggle with loose pars of
their bodies; and the more taditonal singers of
raughty ballads. With the oor knee-lep in biood
and lime, theaiz rent by the sereams ofthe dvingand
‘the sounds of so many vile things chewing athe vile
tings, the sehole scene is how a pious man vould
Jmagine Hell excep that thisis Hel anditis Tar worse
than any mavial man could eagine

Atoier times, however, the entertainment is much
‘more serous. Oncol, moonless rights inthe midale
‘of winter, then th crop of fresh souls vunning ow
because i i too cold tthe Earthly Plane for ell
Inumans to go abroad and kil others the Wid Hunt
Fides out across the word

stall fe by one ofthe seven Princes though more
may comealong fthereis no warraginginthe Pit the
Hunt is a molley collection of Lesser Demons,
Demonic Servants, and Split Sukers and other
‘undead, all mounted on terfyng unde horse.
‘These unearthly mounts are skeletal horses, with
black skin stretched taul between thir protrading
‘bones. Thee manes and tis eracle with fie which
‘is mirored in their insane eyes, The dogs ofthe Wid
untae the Helhounds. Howlnglikesomethingont
‘of your worst nightmares, the hounds si out ving
‘beings fom the stl of fresh blood pumping these
ons! Sweeping out of the midnight sky, the Wid
Hunt mimpagcr across the countryside fooking for
iglated setlments and faemsteads where they can
collet the souls they require, before moving on to
‘ontinae their fun,

‘THE RUNES OF DEATH AND CHAOS

‘The dealt runeis derived from an inverted rune of life
for man, and sjebolzes the opposite force, that of

‘death

The Chaos nine shows 2 citcle, meaning both
‘natlingness andl things the pasados al the hese of
Chaos

74 TITAN — THE FIGHTING FANTASY WORLD

THE GENERALS OF THE LEGIONS OF
THE DAMNED

The armies of Hell are commanded by the four Night
Demons, Kalin, Relem, Shakor and Vradna. They sit
in the war-room of the Palace of Agony, huddled in
their carved thrones around a deep, misty poo! set in
the cold stone floor. The pool allows them to watch the
results of their plans on the Earthly Plane. The Princes
are devious tacticians, working subtly or blatantly,
according to the situation, to further the evil ends of
the Forces of Chaos on Titan,

By gazing down into their scrying pool, the unearthly
generals can look in upon the secret construction of
the dungeon complexes deep beneath the Moonstane
Hills, where the foul necromancer Razaak assemblies
his terrible undead armies, preparing to sweep across
Allansia and drive all before him. The unholy quartet
look down as the swarming armies of the Lizard Man
Empire continue to pound at the crumbling walls of
the besieged city of Vymorna — at catapults throwing
the heads of the city’s young warriors back to their
horrified countrymen, and two-headed high priests
offering up the hearts of living sacrifices to the

demonic generals, asking for just a little more aid
finally to crush the city. As the mists weave, they
watch with satisfaction the eldritch shapes stirring at
the heart of the Wastes of Chaos, and the spirits of
hundreds of undead warriors rising from the battle-
grounds, brandishing notched and rusted weapons
while they scream for vengeance upon the living with
a single deathless voice,

THE HIERARCHY OF THE PIT
Social standing is overwhelmingly important to the inhabitants of the Everlasting Abyss. Despite its
apparent chaos, or perhaps because of it, there is a very rigid set of rules for etiquette when one Demon
meets another, or some other inhabitant of the Infernal Domain who is lower or higher on the social scale, If
the right gestures and greetings are not made, the slighted party has every right to rend the offenderin two,
if he is of a lower class, or at least challenge him to some ghastly duel if he is of the same or a higher group.
For all their sickening atrocities, Dernons can be boringly well mannered at times!
PRUMUS
The Rulers Ebina 3} Sith
The Generals Shakar __ Kalin ftelem = Vravda
SECUNDUS
The Greater Demons - Captains and Cammanicrs
Gir Fire Dernomes Iron Demons Stine Derren
Lightning Demons Rust Demons Shadow Demons
Stocm Demons Plage Deinares Venom Demors
| TERTIUS 7c}
wie | The Lesser Demons - Shock Troops and Slayers
Legions Lasr Fire Demons Horned Demons Hell Demors
of Lava Demons Sure Demangs Mirror Dernous
Damned Sand Demure Nunke foe Demons
QUARTUS
The Great Uniexx! — Haunters and Killers
sy Messengers of Death
Vaunpires
Spirit Stalkers
Phantoms
Lremonic Servunts
a QUINT 5 ae aD
The Lesser Urntend - Guardians and Keepers
(Csluculss
Skeletons
— Zombies
SEXTUS
The Brainless Ones
The Workers Clones
Clone Warriors
SEPTIMUS
The For mless
The Scum! Democapawn
Fresh souls have no rank until they have been assigned to a particular type. This task can only be carried out
by a Greater Demon or Prince, though usually Demonic Servants will handle the assigning of ‘job lots’, fresh
from a major battle, for instance.

Wherever the Demon Princes look, they see the smoke
of battle, the glint of sunlight on armour, the flashing
of swords and the splashing of blood, They see their
demonic emissaries preparing Orcs and Goblins for
battle. They see the dark shapes of Trolls and Ogres
hiding in the mountains and the forests, waiting, for
their moment. They see ancient Dragons stirring in
their sleep in chambers buried far beneath the surface
of the world, knowing their time will soon come. And
they see the new heroes, the adventurers and the
warriors, defeating their forces in many lands; the
sorcerers who still keep the lights of Goodness bum-
ing in the darkness closing all around them; the ordi-
nary folk who gather together to resist the incursions
of Orcs or wolves or Trolls into their lands. The
generals see all this, and continuc to plot their strat-
egies for the total domination of Evil over Titan, sure in
thelr twisted minds that victory cannot be far away.

Orcs — the Warriors of Evil

After the lords and masters, we come to the servants
and the slaves of Evil. There are many inhuman races
aligned with Chaos; we shall attempt to cover the main
ones here, starting with the most numerous, the rank
and file of the anmies of Chaos - Orcs.

You will encounter Orcs wherever you travel, from the
frozen wastes beyond the Iccfinger Mountains to the
idyllic desert islands of the Southern Seas. Wherever
you go on Titan there is one thing of which you can be
certain - Ores will have been there before you, poking
thelr snouts everywhere. They are tremendously
curious beings, for all their Jack of intelligence, and
seem to enjoy exploring and discovering new things -
though they never secm to take enjoyment in any-
thing once they have control of it! It is this fact which
keeps their armies marching ever onwards, and their
miners digging ever deeper,

Ores rarely keep records, except in the form of the oral
histories passed from shaman to shaman, and they
will kill and eat most humans as soon as they
encounter them, so acquiring detailed information on
Orcs for this book has proved quite difficult. At this
point we would therefore like to acknowledge the
great debt we owe to the sorcerer and mystic Enstaflis
Anaren of Shabak, the renowned expert on Orcs, for
much of the data we give here. Enstaflis recently spent
two years in the mind of an Orc soldier from the
Flaulands, gathering even more detailed knowledge of
what it is like to be an Orc, but unfortunately he had to
give his experiment up before he was finished after the
Ore's battalion was ambushed and eaten by a pack of
Tyrannosaurs. However, before he retummed to his
awn body again, Enstaflis had the presence of mind to
collect sure amazing data about the digestive systems
of a Tyrannosaurus Rex! The man is an inspiratiun to
us all.

HASHAK THE CREATOR

Ores say they arc the children of a being called Hashak
the Creator, who is believed by most modern-day
scholars to have been a demigod in the service of the

THE FORCES OF EVIL AND CHAOS 7:

earth goddess, Throff — though Orcs believe him to
have been far more important than her. Mashak is
certainly not very handsome as demigods go: he Is
usually depicted as a stunted, brown-skinned Hill
Giant, Hashak was ambitious and curious about the
new ‘creations’ of the gods, and was especially jealous
of the beings called ‘Dwarfs’, whom Throff was spend-
ing so much of her time peering at from the heavens.
So in a fit of pique and jealousy, Hashak slunk away to
a quiet corner, with a good-sized lump of the magic
clay which his mistress had used to create those
annoying Dwari-things, and began to fashion his own
creations.

Hashak was astounded by the little things he had
made, which wriggied and kicked as he held them in
his fingers. He called them ‘Trolls’, and played with
them fora while, But they were stupid creatures, and
very ugly, and Hashak soon became bored with them,
He took his Trolls and put them down on Titan, hiding
them away in the mountains where no one would see
them, for he felt embarrassed at having made such
ugly things. But Hashak missed his creations, and
resolved to make some more the next day. This time he
took more care, and created a smaller, more finely
detailed set of models, which could think and talk a
litte. The word the little creatures said most of all was
“Urk! Urk!’ and Hashak decided they would be called
‘Urks’.

But that day Throff came back carly, and found
Hashak in the corner playing with his creations. She
was livid, and ordered him to destroy them at once!
Hashak wailed and cried, but it was no use: he had
taken her magical clay and made some nasty little
creatures out of it, and now he must pay the conse-
quences. Hashak looked at the marbled floor, and
asked sheepishly if he could just take his creations

76 TITAN — THE FIGHTING FANTASY WORLD

outside and say goodbye, on his own, before scrunch-
ing them up into a ball again. Throff was a kindly soul
underneath (she must have been to have taken in the
simple-minded Hashak in the first place, human
scholars generally point out at this point), and she
gave in and said he could.

Crafty Hashak had a plan, Scooping up his ‘Urks’, he
went outside, but rather than saying goodbye he hid
most of them in a dark comer, and only scrunched up
a few. Before returning the ball of clay, he mixed in
some ordinary soil from the garden of Galana, the
goddess of plants, so that Throff would not notice.
That night, Hashak crept out and retrieved his ‘Urks’,
and hid them away in all the dark comers of Titan
alongside his Trolls, before sneaking back to his bed.

What Hashak did not know, however, was thathe had
been observed by several of the Dark Lords, who were
awake that night plotting against the other gods, They
followed him, and saw where he hid them. After
Hashak had gone, they took each “Urk’ in turn, and
breathed their Evil over it. To this day, Orcs are tainted
with the curse of Chaos, with the result that they are
bound to serve the Forces of Evil, and also Chaotic
mutations are common among their offspring.

SHAMANS, THE TRIBAL SORCERERS

Ultimate power over the Orcs rests with the shamans,
the tribal witch-doctors and magicians who govern all
spiritual matters and provide direct links with the
supernatural comunanders of the acmics of Evil and
Chaos. The tribes each have theirown kings and chiefs
as well, but these are more concerned with the day to
day business of ruling over the Orcs, Tribal chiefs
always get caught up in issues such as whether an Ore
was wrong to eat his brother-in-law for spilling his ale,
or whether a captured Dwarf should be eaten immedi-
ately or fattened up for later consumption.

But shamans have far more important matters to
worry about. They must consult with their horrific
patrons, usually by means of ritual] dance and blood-
sacrifice, and question them about the immediate
future. They dress scantily, usually in little more than
a foincloth and a good deal of garish paint and bloud,
and they are always waving bones and skulls around,
for they consider themselves to be Death's representa-
tives on the Earthly Plane. Ore sharnans have devel-
oped a great variety of means of divining the messages
sent by their demonic masters. A common onc
features a rat allowed to run free inside a cage around
which are painted the fourteen letters of the Orc
alphabet; as it runs to and froltis meant to spell out the
message from beyond, Other methods include slicing
open a freshly captured Elf and examining the entrails
for signs {a technique known as ‘elfomancy'); or
throwing into the air fourteen cockroaches, each
marked with a rune, to see what message they spell
when they come back down to earth,

Ordinary Orcs know little about religion, for they care
little for anything beyond the end of today. Indeed, all
Orcs are notoriously unconcerned about the future.
Most dream of the ‘some day’ when Orcs shall rule the
world, but none anticipate it. Perhaps this attitude has

developed because they have enough trouble surviv-
ing from one day to the next without having to worry
about the day after as well (or perhaps il is just because
they are stupid!). To the common Orc, shamans are
good for a few heartening spells before battle and for
making the subsequent celebrations fun, what with all
their sacrificing and blood-letting; and they always tell
a good tale, But beyond that they mean very little.

ORCS AND THEIR SIMPLE PLEASURES

Orcs are creatures of simple tastes. They like to eat,
they like to drink, and they like to fight. The first of
these three essentials to Ore happiness is always easy
lo come by, for Ores will eat just about anything they
can get their hands on and their jaws around, Their
favourite food is the flesh of their enemics, and they
are noted for the many unsavoury meals they can cook
out of the corpses of Dwarfs and Elves. The legendary
‘Elf Intestines in Gnome’s-blood Sauce’, for example,
is a speciality of the Severed Arm tribe of Xamen and
the Zanzunu Peaks in northern Kakhabad, though
owing to the very rich nature of its ingredients it is
considered a special delicacy, and is only eaten on very
important occasions (generally, it must be said, to
celebrate the death in battle of a large number of Elves
and Gnomes),

If they cannot get fresh meat, Orcs will resort to other
foodstuffs, including vegetables, wood, metal, rocks
and dirt! They have a special second stomach, which
allows them to digest all kinds of hard or sharp objects.
For this reason, it is often very difficult to imprison an
Ore for long, for in the end he will just eat his way to
freedom. However, after very heavy meals Orcs do get
drowsy, and often need to sleep after the exertions
involved in stuffing their voluminous gullets, Orcs
who have escaped from a dungeon by chewing their

THE FORCES OF EVIL AND CHAOS 77

FAMOUS ORC TRIBES

Orcs are sociable creatures, whu band together in large, shambolic
tribes, each with their own special signs and customs. You can always
tell to which tribe an Orc belongs by looking at his ears, for they decorate
them with the symbols of the tribe,

The Throttled Skull: Live in large system of well-protected caves in the
mountains of southern Lendleland; number about 2,500; led by King
Yargaas Skull-splitter, who got his name from a titanic wrestling-match .
with three Cave Giants; tribal symbol! is, naturally, a throttled skull.

The Clawed Eye: From the central Moonstone Hills in northern Allansia;
number around 1,700; led by the ageing Chief Urgari Grinning-Teeth
and his twenty-three sons; named after a famous, one-eyed tribal hero.

The Iron Fist; Dwell in small villages in forests near Pikestaff Plain in
north-eastem Khul; number only a few hundred; have a peculiar habit of
binding iron around their hands with leather thongs, in the belief that
eventually their hands will turn to iron too; led by Chief Uzgreg
Sour-shriek.

The Curse of Vashanki: A nomadic tribe from the Flatlands, led by King
Argar Kin-Slayer, the only surviving member of a famous family of forty- asi
two Orcs; number around 3,000, split into many wandering families.

way out may sometimes be found close by, fast asleep
and oblivious to any need to flee the immediate area of
their prison!

Ores are not cannibals, however, and they consider it
gravely offensive to cat other Orcs, except in the direst
Gireymstances. However, they seem to believe that
once an Orc dies, he is no longer an Orc, and is
therefore to be regarded like any other tasty snack! At
Orc funerals, indeed, the guests are supposed to show
respect and reverence for the deceased by taking a
large bite or two out of them, before the dear departed
are consigned to the ground or the cleansing fires of
the funeral pyre! Orcs also will not eat undead
creatures, even if they are warmed up, for they do not

find them at all filling. Apart from these two excep-
tions, however, there are very few things Orcs will not
at least attempt to eat.

As far as drink is concerned, Ores consider themselves
to be the finest brewers around. Orc ale is extremely
potent, often to the extent of being deadly poison to a
human being. Ores’ favourite drink is a truly vile
concoction called ‘“Guursh’, though some also call It
‘Hweagh’ - the only reason for these names that we
can think of is that they represent the sorts of noise one
would hear after drinking too much of it, though
perhaps there is some morc tastcful explanation
really. it apparently tastes to humans like licking the
inside of a mossy cave with several cockroaches jam-
med in your nose or so we have been informed by
someone who knew someone who once claimed to
have tried some, What is certain is that it is greeny-
pink in colour, and is kept in lead-lined barrels to stop
it eating through the wood. Orcs consider it a rather
light, delicate drink, and are even supposed to have
vintage years When the Guursh was better than ever: it
apparently must have large lumps floating in it to be
declared vintage — large lumps of what, though, our
informant did not say.

Orcs get drunk fairly easily, which is not surprising
considering the potency of their drinks, and in such a
state they tend to perform all kinds of outrageous acts,
Every tribal shaman has a vast repertoire of cautionary
tales to do with drunkenness, such as the one concern-
ing foolish King Morgag Knucklebreaker, who bought
a puddle off a passing Goblin because he saw the
reflection of the moon in it and thought it was a large
silver plate. Then there was Uglar Goblin-Face, who
ate a whole camel for a bet while under the Influence
and then burst in a most unsavoury manner. Or . .
the list is endless. Orcs seem to take great delight in
hearing about the misfortunes of others, including
other Ores, though, of course, they never realize that
they just might be that stupid too!
THE BONERAT CAVES

An Orc Settlement

LOOKOUT POST
1 guard at s
all times, ar 2nd GUARD ROOM
18 guards, bunks,
tables & rubbish.
LATRINE
aholein
the ground.
CAVE ENTRANCE
2 guards at ist GUARD ROOM
all times. 12 guards, bunks,
tables & rubbish.
= oe STOREROOM
rerieed Food, weapons
ve for quards.
CHIEF'S HAMAN'S
ROOM ANNI ROOM
OUTER
= SHRINE
|
1st LIVING QUARTERS ;
During day, up to
70 warriors reside here.
INNER SHRINE.
TO HASHAK
MAIN STOREROOMS
Various types of
food, treasure,
tools, bedding cic.
MAIN LIVING QUARTERS
80 females and young, ,
lood, bedding,
rubbish. 4 LATRINE

‘THE FORCES OF EVIL AND CHAOS 79

Bannerbearer Troops

Bannerbearer

‘Troops Heralds Chiefs _Rearguard

“Theirthirbasieneed, that Fighting iscateredforin
‘hele ees, and also by an increasingly large number
of very violent feldsports which have become
popular in recent decade

‘The ost widely known of hee games ‘Orc Knees’,
' peculiar game played by two teams, each with four
‘members who aze chosen fom a reserve squad of
twenty. The pitch ia Inge cele, divided across the
mniddby length ot netting orrope,Itisplayed using
an inflated pig's or Tol’ bladder, though cabbage,
melons and Dwarf heads have all bon knoven to
sulie on occasion. The fst Ore starts the game by
punting over the net to « member ofthe oppo
fear, whos to return using only his knees o
head and soon If the bal ges outside the cir, the
Side which did not hit it guns point ifitlandson the
foo within there, the side which di gainsa point,
The fie texm to reach seven points allowed to eat
‘one of th opposing team membcrs, and the games
‘Non sehen there io only one tam eft Orcknce
playersarevery highly pai, tocompensate or thefact
{hat thie carers a8 sportemen are often over very
qucy.

Even more vole is the game of ‘Pass the Slave
‘wheres human or Dor capive tied uplnabuncle
Aandthen kicked, thrown, bounced and pushed upand
oyna field by up oeightorten opposingteams from
‘ifeontinber, who ae each trying to keep the slave
five tong enough for ther to get i into one ofthe
Sill pits at either end which count as goals. Apart
from the basi rue that he slave must e alive nin
‘ne piece when i goes into the goal, and that
players should ty’ te vemain within the boundaries of
the etd if they posi can, there are no restrictions
‘om play. As-a result the game usually Wms into a
blond-bth albelta very enjeyableoneto Ors. AllOre
sporisinvolvea certin amount of death and violence,
becnuse they ae crude, bloodthirsty creatures. But
{heir sports wil ever ake the place of war

‘ORC ARMIES

‘To pat things very Blunly, Ors hate physical work,
but love fighting, They do not relly care who the
enemy fend lf there sno enemy, then members of
nother tbe or family wall do ~ as long as they are
‘vesker, so thatthe Orce can capture los of slaves,
‘who provide much of hee wealth and free them from
{he burden of having to work. When theres some
geste poli sss Soup fous haverval, pa ae the

Plundering ofa vic cy, Ores wil work and fight un
they drop. Ores love teasuce almost as muchas they
love the fighting by which they obtain it.

Oresare cowards, however, and morale and ongariza
tion on the batleeld soften a problem, unless they
areled rom behind by someone with long whip and
loud voice! This helps expain why Once Bet forthe
umes of Chaos, which are invariably led by very
‘Shrsmtic sorcerers and ev but forcefl,warors

Inany bat the strongest and largest Ors will push
the smulle ones ahead of them, and if they have had
enough time, the smaller Ores will have esjoled
(Goblins or Trost ight alten often.

Orshavealotofstamina, and can march surprisingly
fast kept in tight formation by thelr commander,
They have been forced to lean this, mostly becasse
many creatures cannot stand to be nen them. Only
‘Wolves wil allow themssves tobe ridden by Ores,
8nd even they wil ter on ther rider the pickings
fre not plentiful enough to satisfy their powerful
[appetites Orecolumns tend tousethe same fornution
when they are ona forced march,

‘The scouts Keep about an how's march ahead ofthe
smsin fore; thei job is to make sure thatthe oad i
‘ear ofthe enemy, and to eap the chiefs informed of
‘what ies ahead. Behind them comethe rank and fe,
lived into battalions, each led by a bannerbeace.
{Oretanisers are ges afaes, and ae often decorated
with skal an other parts oftheir enemies, but they
{ive the oops a allving point they getlost during.
Date Behind the oops come the ciel, sometimes
being carried in chairs held aloft by slaves or less
fortunate ‘Ore soldiers, The whole entoumge is
roundedof ith half battalion asthe rearguard, who
pend some of ther time veatching for pursuing
frees, and the rst picking up staggers from the
sain ary.

‘Wheroverthey march, Otearmies bing fearand death
toall humans, Dwarfs and Elves, It isnot hard in see
‘why Ores ave despleed so much, for they are vil
Dloethinsty erentres, intent on king 36 many of
thelr enemies as posite and ultimately establishing
Uetnselves oe aoe rulers and masters of ll of Titan
Bt nagging question sl remains over hove Ma
‘Ores and other oul centres ame into being
nly shudder and say that it must be a eal right
teeenava One

80 TITAN - THE FIGHTING FANTASY WORLD

Goblins — the Children of
Evil

Compared to Orcs and their ilk, Goblins are indeed
children, but what nasty, vicious, violent children
they are! Like Orcs, you will find them almost
everywhere you travel, and they will always be caus-
ing trouble for some poor souls. Unlike their inhuman
relations, however, they are not usually organized
into armies, and many live quite pleasant lives as
farmers or scavenging hunters, though there has not
been a Goblin born who would not exchange his
plough for the chance to rob a traveller, if he could get
the drop on him! In times gone by, it is said, they did
indeed serve with the great Orc armies, but the habit
the Orcs had of putting Goblins in the front line of any
attack quickly changed that! Nowadays, whenever
Goblins do serve with Orc armies, they tend to make
up separate regiments, such as the legendary Skal-
lagrim's Lifestealing Crusade, and the Blood of
Heaven's Deliverers (Goblins are well known for the
overblown names of their regiments!).

Where Goblins actually came from is not known for
certain, and every scholar who has studied them has
his or her own theory. Problems come when you
actually ask Goblins where they think they come from,
for every tribe has its own, usually very different,
story. Despite the efforts of many great scholars and
sages through the years, there has never been a
unified theory of their origins, This sort of thing is very
frustrating for us scholars, for it means we can never
be sure of the truth of what we write. However, the
various Stories can be very interesting, and they do
allow us to indulge in one of our favourite pastimes —
arguing with one another!

The Children of Hashak. One legend states that Goblins
were made by the legendary creator of Ores, Hashak,
after he had made such a bad job with Ores and Trolls.
He took one look at his ugly, stupid, violent creations,
and decided to start again, and eventually came up
with the far superior Goblins! This is not as strange as
it sounds, for Goblins are much better than Orcs at
many things, though they are also much weaker and
less warlike. Goblins who believe this legend tend to
keep very quiet about it when Orcs are around, for this
story can drive the latter to extremes of violence!

Brothers to the Woudlings. Another legend {not widely
believed by the Goblins themselves) states that there
was once a single race of woodland creatures, related
to Elves and Gnomes, Over the centuries they slowly
divided into many different groups, Some tumed into
Woodlings, the shy forest-dwellers; others became the
mischievous Pixies; and some were tainted with a
streak of Evil, and developed into Goblins. This
legend also has a ring of truth to it, for some Goblins
do still live quiet lives in the forests and hills of wilder
lands, and they do bear a superficial resemblance to
their supposed relations. But no one, surely, believes
that Goblins are in any way related to Elves? It is
interesting to note that if you told a Goblin he was
related to an Elf, he would probably run you through
there and then!

interbreeding. It is widely known that Orcs have bred
with many other races, both good and evil, over the
centuries, creating many peculiar offspring, including
Doragar and Hobgoblins, [t is, therefore, not
inconceivable that Goblins are simply the result of
earlier crossbreeding between Orcs and other
creatures — maybe even human —and then developed
as a race in themselves. Goblins certainly appear to be
related to Orcs in many ways that even closer relations
— such as Doragar—are not. Both species are wary of
sunlight and can see in the dark better than they can In
daylight, and they have similar body structures
(though Goblins are smaller and lither), and many of
their tribes are organized in the same way. On the
other hand, Goblins are much cleverer than the aver-
age Orc, especially at making nasty little mechanical
traps and instruments of torture. They also have this
inclinatlon towards the natural life, a3 we have said,
which no self-respecting Orc would ever share!

GOBLINS EVERYWHERE!

However they first came to walk the face of the world,
it ts certain that Goblins are here to stay, for they infest
just about everywhere, Not only do tribes of the
creatures lurk in every range of hills and every thick
forest, but they are also found much further afield, in
places where you would not expect them, In the
sweltering heat of the southern Khulian wastelands,
for example, Goblins still live around Lake Mlubz and
the ancient ruins of Zagoula. There are Goblin settle-
ments on some of the islands in the Black Ocean. And
even on the fringes of the Desert of Skulls, a few
Goblin tribes try to scratch a living out of the parched
land —as well as regularly raiding passing merchants.
Marsh Goblins, the Uggluk-jai, are very well known,
for they are even crueller and nastier than their land-
based cousins. Everywhere you look, from Allansia to
Kakhabad, from Lendleland to Khul, Gublins are
thriving and multiplying.

TRIBAL LIFE

Goblins occasionally refer to themselves as ‘the Goblin
nation’, or ‘Harajan-jai’ in their own guttural
language, but in truth there is no such thing.
Certainly, they live in tribes, and are recognizable by
members of other tribes when they mect them, and
they share customs and legends and the like, but it is
not true to regard them as one nation, as one would
the Elves, for example. Most Goblins could not care
what happened to other tribes, as long as the survival
of their own was guaranteed.
Each Goblin tribe has its own territory, within which
various families may live wherever they please. Many
dwell together in caves or villages, but some prefer to
live away fram the other tribe members. Tribes are
ruled over by a chief and a shaman, who dwell near to
the tribe’s recognized ‘meeting-place’, which is usu-
ally at the very centre of the Goblins’ territory. Every
so often, all the members of the tribe gather at the
meeting-place —a clearing marked by totem poles and
standing stones carved with tribal history - fora very
rowdy celebration, during which much potent Goblin
ale will be drunk, ancient Goblin legends will be told
yet again, and everyone will cat until they are sick.

The chief of any tribe is elected, quite simply, because
he is the strongest and most heroic of them all. Whena
chicf dies, if there is no obvious hero to take his place,
all eligible Goblins are sent away to prove their
courage by performing such decds as killing a Moun-
tain Giant in single combat, or skinning a Manticore,

THE FORCES OF EVIL AND CHAOS 5%:

The Goblin who brings back the best trophy at the end
of five days is declared chief, and his trophy is placed
on one of the totem poles in the tribal meeting-place-

Goblins are quite religious creatures, and their sha-
man is regarded as the earthly link with their many
gods and demigods. All Goblins worship Hashak,
obviously, but they also spend a great deal of time
worshipping past heroes of the Goblin race, such as
One-Eyed Urm, Jorun Dwarf-Boller and Klarn Ugbar
the Three-Fingered. They fully believe that heroic
Goblin warriors are elevated to sit beside Hashak
when they die, from where they can watch over the
fortunes of the Goblin race. The shamans themselves
are quite peculiar creatures, who often run around
completely naked, their scrawny bodies painted with
religious symbols and runes, and with bones woven
into their hair and stuck through thelr ears and noses.
They are quite frightening to look at if you have seen
nothing like them before, for when they want to scare
someone they can rant, rave and gibber so impress-
ively that you would swear they were possessed by
Demons! Most shamans are able to do a little magic,
and on rare occasions they can even summon up the
spirit of some past hero to put a curse on their
enemics.

The shamans are also responsible for the upkeep of the
totems, which usually hang on poles made from the
trunks of small trees and carved with images from the
tribe’s history. The trophies of all the chiefs are fixed to
the poles or impaled on the top, and depending on
how old the tribe is there may be upwards of half a
dozen such poles. Every sunset, the shaman will
perform a ritual dance around the poles, and on very
special days he may ask the warriors of the tribe to
procure him a human or an Elf for a blood-sacrifice.

and quite a lot of fresh meat.

quite deliberate.

FIVE MISCONCEPTIONS ABOUT GOBLINS

1. They do not eat rocks and dist. Orcs do, which is where the confusion arises. Goblins eat roots, berries

2. Despite the jokes, Goblins are not stupid. They may not be intellectuals, but they can be cunning and
conniving, Try telling a ‘Goblin joke’ to one, and you may find out!

3. Goblins do not worship trees and boulders, This misconception arose because someone saw a shaman
bowing down before a wooden totem pole and a rock on which Goblin legends had been carved.

4. Goblins do not eat their children by mistake. They only do it when they are very hungry, and then it is

5. Goblins are not afraid of the sky falling on their heads, although itis true that they do not like all that Dig
sky up there, and that they do not like bright sunlight. [f you see a Goblin running around clutching his
head and wailing it is just that someone has hit him, that is all!

&2 TITAN - THE FIGHTING FANTASY WORLD

Ordinary Goblins live fairly unremarkable lives, farm-
ing or hunting for the most part. For relaxation,
however, Goblins du like to raid other cultures, or
perhaps perform a little highway robbery on some
unsuspecting travellers. They take great delight in
traps and mechanisms of all kinds, and they secm to
find entertaining such thoughts as people falling
down pits on to poisoned spikes, or having their ears
sliced by hidden blades, or having sharp needles stuck
in their feet by springs. Their caves are often protected
by very sophisticated traps, which are usually enough
to dissuade even the bravest or most stupid intruders.

GOBLIN ARMIES

As we have already said, Goblins now fonn their own
regiments in the armies of Chaos rather than simply
serving alongside their inhuman brethren. They per-
form many different roles, but they are most often
used as light infantry, to slip deep into enemy country
to leave booby-traps and sabotage bridges and roads,
OF a$ Sappers and engineers at sieges. They are hardy
warriors, despite their size, and they are much less
prone to cowardice than their larger companions.

In Goblin lands, many tribes organize their warriors
into bands which patrol the territory, watching out for
hostile intruders and large animals. Goblins tend to
share their lands with enemy races such as Dwarfs or
Elves, and they have to be very careful to avoid them,
and also to hide their villages away from them.

MARSH GOBLINS

One peculiar strain of Goblins are the Uggluk-jai, the
Marsh Goblins. They differ from their more familiar
relations in that they are even scrawnicr, and have
green-tinted skin and webbed hands and feet. They

make their homes, obviously, in the middle of large
areas of marsh and swampland, where they live on
small creatures like water-rats and marsh-voles. ‘They
are nasty, spileful things, even more than normal
Goblins, and they delight in leaving snares and traps
everywhere, perfectly placed for unwary creatures
(and occasionally adventurers) to step into,

They usually live in strange communal huts, which are
built out of mud and reeds on raft-like platforms
floating on the surface of the swamp. Part of them,
including the only entrance, is hidden underwater for
protection, and to anyone who does not know better,
they look like tangled clumps of reeds, though a trickle
of smoke seeping from a hole in the top may give them
away. Inside the buildings, there is usually little light
and the atmosphere is very darnp and rotten, with lots
of Goblin families sharing the same small space.

The favourite pastime of many Marsh Goblins is to tic
some tasty morsel (such as a plump human adven-
turer, for example) to something solid, leave it in the
middle of the swamp, and watch what happens when
larger swamp monsters pick up the scent and come to
feed. They also use live bait to attract large creatures
when they are hunting. Marsh Goblins do not have
tribal leaders, but their shamans are very similar to
those of land-<dwelling Goblins, They worship
Hashak, like all Goblins, but also a peculiar number of
disgusting marsh deities, including Sluurm, an
immortal giant slug, and Vurrk, Lord of the Marsh
Wraiths.

Marsh Goblins speak a weird language which sounds
more like gargling than speech, even to other Goblins.
They are violent and cruel, which is hardly strange for
Goblins, but they are so to one another as well as to
other races. Their various tribes are often caught up in
pointless, bloody wars against one another, perhaps
for possession of only a few square metres of swamp,
Marsh Goblins do not like normal Goblins either, and
will attack them unless the latter are very careful. They
also hate Kokomokoa and the other races who share
thelr swampland domains; indeed, it seems that
Marsh Goblins are always fighting someone!

Troglodytes

Troglodytes are thought to be distantly related to
Goblins. Certainly, they share many physical charac-
teristics, for Troglodytes look very much like short,
big-eared Goblins, It is quite possible that they
evolved from Goblins who started to dwell deep
underground in caves and dungeon complexes away
from thelr surface-loving fellows, In time, perhaps,
the low ceilings of their cramped domain caused them
to produce shorter and shorter offspring, and at the
same time their ears and noses grew larger to cope
with the lightless conditions down there. Although
Goblins can see in the dark, their eyes arc like those of
cats, and require at least same light to be able to see far,
Troglodytes, however, developed a system like that
used by bats; echoes tell them where the walls and
ceiling are, and help them pinpoint their prey with
deadly accuracy even in the darkest of situations.

LIFE UNDERGROUND

Troglodytes live a fairly pleasant life underground,
though it is not without its hardships, They feed
mostly on beetles, moss and fungus, which they grow
in large caverns, tending them carefully under the
light of phosphorescent plants. Occasionally,
however, they will hunt out a tastier morsel, such asa
lone adventurer, Dwarf or ever a Dark Elf (though the
latter are a very rare, and quite perilous, delicacy,
normally reserved for very special occasions). They are
as skilful as Goblins at setting up traps — though they
know little of more sophisticated mechanical ones —
and they often capture their prey with a well-placed
tripwire or a false floor which tilts its victim into a pit.
Troglodytes are great burrowers, and thelr tiny tun
nels will often riddle larger Dwarf or Orc dungean
complexes, which from time to time they will enter to
hunt prey.

Some tribes of Troglodytes have managed to tame
giant beetles, centipedes and rock grubs, which they
use as mounts. They have even trained them to stay in
line like cavalry horses, and they use the armoured
creatures in their occasional battles against the larger
denizens of the underground world. Troglodytes arc
very possessive about their caverns and tunnels, and
will fight against overwhelming odds to keep larger
creatures from taking over their areas. Favourite
Troglodyte weapons include small throwing-axes and
daggers, as well as bows which fire flint-tipped arrows
with great accuracy.

THE FORCES OF EVIL AND CHAOS 383

* uJ ° “Je r

THE RUN OF THE ARROW

In fact, it is their skill with their small bows which
provides the one aspect of Troglodyte culture for
which they are famous — the Run of the Arrow. This
bizarre game is played when Troglodytes have cap-
tured a large being such as a human or a Dwarf (they
never play it with Dark Elves — why waste all that
succulent flesh?). Their captive is freed, an arrow is
fired into the distance, and he is allowed to walk safely
as far as that point before the Troglodytes will try to
hunt and shoot him down, One recent Troglodyte,
captured and interrogated by Dwarfs, revealed that
Troglodytes always fire short with their first arrow,
just in case their aim is a bit off that day! Even worse,
the creature also told of a new variant which was being
practised by the Uurgag tribe. Just beyond the point
where the first arrow lands, there may be a hole in the
ground, which, the Troglodytes tell their captive,
leads to freedom. The captive is allowed to get as far as
the mark as usual, but when he leaps into the hole he
finds that it is actually full of sharpened spikes! The
Troglodyte seemed to think that this was an excellent
new addition to the game, until the Dwarfs ‘per-
suaded’ it otherwise.

SHAMANS AND IDOLS

Like Goblins, Troglodytes are led by high chiefs and
shamans, who organize the tribal worship of thelr
many peculiar gods. Troglodytes seem to worship just
#bout anything they can, from Hashak to ‘the All-
consuming Blindness’ {the sun), and from Scratta
Many-legged {a giant centipede of awesome propor-
tions) to something called Shreech, the rat king.
Indeed, it is quite possible that any adventurer who
managed to impress them with his or her prowess
would become one of their deities too - though he or

} she might have to die first. They erect large statues,

made from gold they dig out of the rock around them,
in caverns at the heart of their territory, around which
they dance wildly at the least excuse, while their
naked shamans chant and shriek and scream, just 2s
all shamans do!
81 TITAN THE FIGHTING FANTASY WORLD

Trolls and Ogres

‘The sel heavyweights ofthe armies of Evil age Trolls
and Ogres, large, Drutish creatures who lack even the
Small amounts of inteligence and cublety which
Goblins and theiitk possess. Both are related to other
inhuman races, but Uke them they have gradually
developed their own particule ‘culture’

IT'S A TROLL’S LIFE

As with Goblins, the ovigin of Trolls notriouely
ical to be cerain about. However, two ews
prevail among scholars who have made 2 study of
Such tings elthr they developed from exay rose:
broetng of Orcs with Giants, or they were In fact
ceated alongside Orcs by Hashak, (deed, when 3
Tro wishes to peka ight wth an Ore whichis quit
often heneeds simply 0 sy, Hal You're just jealous
“eos you got made second!” Ores are very inable
when thet supremacy ie called into question, es
pecily by something as cbviowsly inferior as 2 Troll)

However they came tbe on Tita, Trolls gulehly
spread across its entire face, fom the tops of oun
{ainstothebotiom of the sea. Despite ther widerange
of habitats, Rowever, Trolls arenot very popu, for
they breed only rarely. Why this should be i not
‘Known, though some scholars have theorized tha i
‘may have something todo with the extreme repulsive:
ess of female Trolls, which also explains why £0
‘many tale Trolls join up a soldiers,

All Trolls aredslked by those races aligned tothe ide
‘f Good, bu expecially by Dwarfs, whe sulle rm 3
bers sage whenever they encounter Hill Tol
‘Thisstems roman incident over seven hundred years
before the War of the Wizards, when the great Dart
thera Hlarlak Vanageinsson wailed by a trbeof Hil
‘Trolls while ying to force 2 passage through the
Kalakas(kaown tohumansas the Freezeblood Moun
tsi) Bven previously, a Dwarf kev he could expect
snomery althe hands of Toll~sudiden death would
Detheend of themater.On thisaceasion, however,
vile Hill Teol shaman managed to bring Vanageins-
son back to life asa zombie under his command. For
three years afterwards, the Dwarls of Fangthane
found themselves under atack from their beloved
Ito, who was madetolead thei Toll armies, un
raiding party found the Troll ehaman and Kile Nim,
Now, when a Dwaefmeetsa HUl Till, he ight the
death, praying that Ihe does fl his body wil be 20
Fnjured tat Itcan never rise agin

Trolls do not organize themselves into nations, and.
only Hil Tolls gather into tribes. Ii vay in the
Ares of Bil that you wil fnd Trolls working and
fighting together though their temperament i uch
that they often end up fighting ashen themselves
Instend of withthe eneeny. They are rough, unmuly
‘reatures, Who enjoy Ore ale and vislnce, and they
are not cowardly in bate. Owing to their extreme
Stupidity, however, they tend to be exploited by Ons.
[Now that Goblins have thelr ve septs, seems
‘Trolls are the favours for leading the armies of El
ino atl, though the Orcs ty to dlsgulse the situa
tionty giving the Tolls grand les andallowing than
special pevleges, such os eating the dad aller the
bute is over OF course, what the Ore commanders
{ailtotel he Trolls is that they are unlikely to survive
fotheendofthebutle they gointhe frontlines! Such
fs the way of Chaos, withthe song expoting the
sup and death cheating them all

‘TROLL HUMOUR
‘Trolls are known in many lands for ther sense of humour, which is highly developed, but eather

unsophisticated, to say the least. Repetve innate and brutlin content, it provides yes
theworkingsofthe Tell mind, The greatest Tall comedian oa lime is widely recognized tohave been one
Zak the Violent, who used fo wonder the Flatlands of Allansia with his taveling show, ul he was
‘unfortunately led after plying to an audience of Dias by mistake while drunk on cheap Orc ale ee
area fw chestnuts om is vast epertoire ofthe very best n

‘Why id he Darras thera? Bese si fhe ie ut fist ant stick tha ap hi moe Ugh Uh
"What do you get you hit Dart with a very Inge rock? A big laugh! Ughi Ugh
‘Wht woud you sey tou Der eit ea etmes on? Not’, ous it hi i the stomach nso! Ugh Us”

‘iow da you get sh Dwarfs into an ona? Well fest you take a big ae and you cut then up into tle
pieces the you et ther and then yo get inthe ox-cat! Ugh! Ugh

nights into

humour

OGRES AND THE TAINT OF CHAOS

Ore shamans tell the following story about the creation
of Ogres; itis not known where it originated, but it has
been around for many centuries.

At the end of the Godtime, when Death and his fellow
Dark Lords had been banished into the Void for
releasing Time into the world, there were still many
places on Titan where the power of Chaos was strong.
In one such area, now thankfully sunk beneath the sea
afier the continents shifted, Hashak, the creator of the
Orcs, placed some of his new-born Orcs. It was a dark
place, like all the others in which Hashak had left his
creations to grow, and Hashak did not look into it too
carefully. He had a great many of his Orcs to hide
before the sun rose again, and he was in a hurry to
finish his task.

In the darkness, the new-born Orcs grew quickly, but
they grew with the taint of Chaos in their flesh, not
knowing it was changing them, By the time they were
strong enough to set foot outside in the light, they had
been warped by li, and they were different from the
other Orcs - they were now Ogres, the Warped Ones,
Since that time, long, long ago, the other races aligned
with Evil have become touched with the taint of
Chaos, and mutations are common, but no other race
has Chaosatits core. There are still many Orcs who are
normal in shape and mind, but no two Ogres are ever
the same.

ae ME

| eed

During the War of the Wizards, when Chaos returned
to the world in great strength, Ogres formed a large
part of the evil armies, They would lead mutating
troops into battle, marching ahead of nameless beings
which writhed and formed new shapes even as they
wriggled and crawled towards the enemy! The armies
of Chaos were ultimately defeated, however, and the
few remaining Ogres were scattered across the face of
the world again,

Many Ogres live pitiful lives away from civilization,
which spurns them as it would any other mutant,
though most Ogres look almost normal on the outside,
They lurk in caves in the wasteland, and live by
hunting whatever they can catch. They have little or
no triba) organization, no leaders and no shamans.
However, in the mountains south of Lendleland
known as the Anvils of the Gods, there is talk of ‘the
Three’, a triv of Ogres who have somehow learnt the
ways of sorcerers and shamans, and who practise
magic! While it is conceivable that a Chaotic creature
could be spawned with some innate magical powers, it
is quite ludicrous to suggest that three such creatures
could have the powers of master sorcerers simply by
chance. Until we know more about ‘the Three’ we
cannot give any more accurate details, though it
certainly seems to most learned peopic that some great
sorcerer or unearthly being must have been involved
in granting such powers to three Ogres. However,
from the rumours we have heard, their powers are
very great, which makes them incredibly dangerous.
They seem to provide yet more evidence of the
resurgence of Chaos in the forgotten corners of our
world.

Some Ogres are beginning to find service in the armies
of insane servants of Evil such as the necromancer
Razaak, where they are proving themselves strong
and reliable. These days, their Chaotic nature more
ofien than not results in nothing more than some small
mutation, such as scaly skin, boils, horns or a third
eye. They are proving to be very valuable troops, If
given sufficient training to cope with such incredibly
complicated weapons as bows and slings! One very
famous Ogre was Naggamanteh, the brutal Master
Torturer to the evil Archmage of Mampang in
Kakhabad, Grossly deformed, with only one eye anda
face that made milk turn sour and even grown Trolls
feel ill, Naggamanteh was very successful at his job,
and turned it almost into an art - though a very sick,
depraved one! Many of his specialities have passed
into the lore of other torturers, who swear by ‘Nag-
gamanteh’s rusting thumbscrews!" and ‘the Ogre’s
crushing clamps!" In fact, Naggamanteh even penned
Naggamanteh’s Book of Tortures (he was not very good
on titles), which has long been recognized as a master-
piece by torturers across Titan - and although the
spelling is atrocious, it shows just how successful an
Ogre can become if given the right outicts for his
‘talents’.

THE FORCES OF EVIL AND CHAOS 4&5
6 TITAN ~ THE FIGHTING FANTASY WORLD

The Snake People

The races sve have discussed up lo now have been
crude, batarle and not to gifed with inteligence
Bat nove we come to three aces which ae far mor
sophisticated in thee service of Fil and Chaos. We
Shall shoely discuss the accused Lizard Men ef the
Souther jungles and the demonic Dack Elves of
“Thrandull Katha, deep beneath the surface of the
woe. But let nestor inthe baking deserts of Titan,
‘vith the Snake People.

SOME LIKE IT HOT

‘The Snake People of Allansia and Khul dwell only in
the very hottest pats ofthe Desert of Skull and the
Scythera Desert for they are col-booded creatures
Who necd warmth to survive. Its this basie need
Which has kept themn from encroaching on more
temperate lands and spreading thelr euel dominion 0
mere populated areas of the world As ite, they
contol visaeasof theo continents, binging thee
‘vn peculiae forms of death to many peoples

‘TheCtarth, whoate the major ace ofall those known
collectively as the Snake People, have long been
‘eatures of legend and subject tall kinds of tithe
fnd conceptions, Many past riers of bestiaries and
riyhshave desclbed the Caarth a bald enaketaled
‘monstrosities, for they had to use hstaty, inthe
absence of any firsthand accounts of mectings with
Such creatures. Ia fat, however, they af more Uke
Snake-headed humans, simular inform tothe Lizard
Men of the southers jungles, and with a simile
atitudeto theother ces of Titan’ they sip wish to
kill every last member of very last one!

From her stone ities deep in the desert wastelands,
they sen forth thelr waerors to conquer and enslave
alllands around them. During one such eid, about
thirty yours ago, a band of Cazthwariors captured &
travelling merchant, Voloidon Carta by nate, Fas
ing for is ie, the man fainted dean away when the
sefpent warrars came over the ridge infront of his
‘arwvan, but woke fo fin himself sspped upside
down across the back ofa Giant Lizard, jt behind ts
Sealyskinned rider He was ken asa save to small
feneampmentby adesert oasis belocebeing moved on
toa massive stone clade on the edge of some lo,
rocky foothills. Here he was putinta sevice, fist a
litte bearer fora high-ranking Casrth pest, andater
sa tasted slave toa captain of the serpent waeron”
anmics, Eventually, after twelve years, he worked
himself into such postion that he waste alone for
{good part ofthe day, and Care gradually secreted
away enough feod and waler © stempt to escape
frompiscaptrs,thoughhe knew that fhe wascaught
the would be skinned alive and his body offered to the
desert scorpions.

He chose his moment well. His master, along with
‘many other Cath warriors, was called aviay fo the
outhem tron in the Snakelands, where Lizard
Man expeditionary force was scouting for suitable
setllement sites. Carak had memorized the exact
position ofthe cade rom maps hehad seen wien
the service of the Caaeth priest, and is extensive
knowledge of the wade-routes helped the rest ofthe
‘say. Eventuslly,paiafully thin and dehydrated but
stllalive, Voloidon Carsak staggered into the camp of
8 trader fiom Warpstone, who was bound for
Salamonis in the southern part of cetted Alls,
Carsk) reached “Sslamonis and. tevesled the
previously unknown werld of the Snake People, Most

ge
ie eel
‘ofthe information we present here is based upon
CCarenk’ own recollections of isle among theSake
People although iis more than fifleen years od
‘much oft sil applies, and we have manages o add
tore recent deus by the caraful use of divintory
magi

SITH'S REVENGE

‘When the Dark Londs of Chaos were banished from
‘the Earthy Plane and iomprisoned in the Void, their
generals, the Demon Princes, fed into the dackest
Somers of what became known as the Demonic
Planes, where they quietly rebuilt theistrensths. The
most dominant of all Princes as the Snake Demon
Sith, who quickly established herself ae the most
vworiny servant of the Dark Lords with the grosses
te against her fellow Demons, and later against
sth beings. Sis great love for sakes (the tile
vento her by scholars on the Eavthly Pane, Snake
Bemon, stems from this), and she wanted to find
ome way of increasing thls power on Tita, fo cary
fut her revenge on the Forces of Good which had
banished her mustrs and caused her to hideaway in
{earin the outer reaches ofthe muluverse for slong

Inspired by the Orcs and the other inhuman races,
‘Which were by now teeming everywhere acoss the
‘Surface of Tian, she gathered together several fine
Thuman specimens, and several o the inst snakes,
sndblended them in wostspawringvet. Altra great
many hore mislakes, on which ii better not to
fel, Sth crested the creature kann tothe Caan as
Sthghkall, which means ‘Sacred Father of All the
fret ofthe Snake People

‘thghll was eight fet tal, with four arms and the
Ihend ofa cobra, bt ie the ay af human intl
sence. But Sith was net deterred, and she soon
Epivmmed him a mate, kaown to the Czar as

‘THE FORCES OF EVIL. AND CHAOS 57

Hsghull (Sacred Mother of All). She was smaller,
with only two arms and the head of viper, bat much
‘lover, with both the naturalcunning ofa snake and
ihe seasoning powers of a human. Between them
SThghkull and Hssphall quickly produced several
dozen offing, and the Caarth a a race were bor,
Sith transported the offpring to the Eathly Plan,
secreted them away inthe hottest parts of what ere
Intro be sled the Dasert of Skalle and the Seythers
Desert, and et them to thrive.

‘THE CITIES OF THE SNAKE PEOPLE

‘More than millenium later now, the Caath have
consructed ther own ctadls, carved from the solid
Stone of desert ockformatons, and establizhed their
Sominance over a wide ara of the surface world
Indeed, tere are not just Caarth any more ether,
‘Thay have been joined by the fearsome Justall, the
snake-alled serpent guard, wo paral the very edges
of their domain, bringing slow, psnful death to any
‘whe date trespass onthe land ofthe Snake People

In Allansi, the Snake People (v genetic term for
ath, Justa and other oseorted snake-mutations)
vel forthe most partin large stone citadel, though
{every oasis in the heart ofthe desert has its own all
Satlement of Caarth, who usually dell under canvas
inamannerlenmt fom thehuman nomads who dll
‘nthe hinges ofthe Snake People’s testory. In Kha,
ll Caarth ive inthis way’, for thelr power on that
Continent i very small. I isthe ees, however,
‘which most ineest those. who study the Snake
People

‘Thoir main settlements are the cladels of K'estal
(Heart of Gimmering Stone), Stuerak (Cool Provie
dence of Shadows’) and the Caurth capita, Theiss
(Tewselisd Oasis of Sighing Worship). There are also
boul a dozan small fortifications in a wide elipee
round these three clades, each of which houses 3
amis of Csarth and Justa wacrorsand lite cle.

{The merchaat Voloidan Carsak ved in the cage of
Stuck, but beloved thatthe other two were much
thesame.

‘Sturrakis built into the side of large mesa, a mastive
block of sone several leagues across which rises
‘cverl hundred metres above the level ofthe desert
From is highest towers it was sid that one could cee
tone of Shes pmmering in the sunlight, many,
‘many leagues aay Indeed, the Caarth used 10 com
‘unleate with hllogeaphs,micrors which they vould
‘ash inthe sunlight according to spedfc codes, relay
ing messages va the watchtowers and cases between
tie cles

“The dtade of Stunak isa bizarely designed place,
With dozen of lowers and alls, atound which tun
‘many spiralling staircases and ramps. At is base, on
the desert oor, is inhuman builders constructed 3
Seriesof walt and gates thickenough to withstand the
‘ssl ofthe most determined enemy — though none
bas ever atlacked it. The Canth builder bad
previously bored deepinta therock behind theca
fo create a warren of Inge, cool chambers which
‘hele yg reed uble bach ia coma sly, and

8 TITAN — THE FIGHTING FANTASY WORLD

‘THE CITIES OF THE SNAKE PEOPLE

This map is based upon one drawn from memory by the merchunt Voloon Carsak, and Is
approximate, but itis the bast anyone has ever been able to manage,

1 The Cie

‘where many slaves were kept hen not being put to
‘work elsewhere. Although they aze not always ood
Aesigners, thei ails at working rock are neat 3
‘match for those of Dwarfs or Skorn.

A the top ofthe mesa, the Caarth scraped away 2
smooth expanse of rock, fo forma wideavenue, which
is lined on either side with disconcerting satues of
Wartiors, priests and Demons, and ends in a smal
‘stepped platform on which many sacrifices re made,
Behind the plationn isthe main temple to Sith,
monstrous, pyramid-shaped pace of shadows where
‘the whole floor perpetually alters with snakes ofall
typesandstzes Indeed, muchof he tagesintested
swith he sal reptilian creatures, who are eparded os
ppure and sacred by all Saake People, The snakes
Sczasonally bite saves and one another, but never
attack a Coarth or usta.

FORBIDDEN KNOWLEDGE

Casting thei shadows down aver the top ofthe mesa
are the tallest ofthe towers of Sak, which house
the high plestsand the mystic library and observatory
‘of the Canrth sorcerers, The Snake People have not
boon on Titan as fong as some races, but they have
collected a great deal of knowledge fom every source
they can, Prisoners are thoroughly questioned, and
pavbeotlipapens otomin J worakaina ane

fentact every last seap of knowledge from their
feghtened minds before they are turned over tothe
slavemasters, Crarth sorcerers apparently excivate
ancient desert cies, in thee constant seateh for newt
learning In heirlbraies they keap records ofall helt
knowledge, writen in thee indeciphersble script on
thin slivers of metal and stone, which will not sulfer
‘the ravages of ne as badly a parchment,

In thelr obsoratoies, Canrth use telescopes of pro
sligiows size, with lenses and mirrors made, by
obscure magical techniques, from massive dacs of
highly polished quar with these they abserve the
Sars and gradually map out the universe It is
‘widely belived that the Caarth have discovered other
planets near fo Titan, something which mum scho-
lars have long suspected but have never been able
to prove

‘The Snake People know much of other lapis to.
Theie knowledge of poisons and venoms. is
‘unequalled. They have’ poions, extracted frm
snakes, spiders and desert sompions, forall purposes
toma an enemy sleep or dl, totuen him insane of
‘make his body break out in reptilian sales in prepa
fon for anothee ghastly Caatth experiment. Most
CCansth and Justa weapons are coated with pols of
fone sort or another, sehichInvasably snakes them
polyp Patras Reahania poping
The knowledge Caarth sorcerers have of mutations
and interbreeding is alsu vast, for they have been
creating new species for many centuries in unholy
attempts to continue the work of their snake fore-
fathers by creating the most powerful combination of
humans and snakes possible. This is how the Justrali
were created, along with many other less successful
mutations which lurk in the desert, abandoned by
their creators. The priests of S'turrak also attempt to
resurrect their forefathers by reshaping slaves’ bodies
into vehicles for their souls to return to life, but these
experiments have been notoriously unsuccessful, as
the case of the nearly legendary Serpent Queen of Port
Blacksand shows.

SITH’S REPRESENTATIVES ON THE
EARTHLY PLANE

The Snake People are ruled over by their high priests,
who act both as commanders of their armics, and as
the direct representatives of their beloved Sith on the
Earthly Plane. The high priest of S'turrak at the time
when Carsak was there was known as H’kchktaress
(which means, according to Carsak, ‘Venom Drips
Like Honey from His Blade’ in the language of the
Caarth), and he was a pure embodiment of evil. His
duties included the ritual sacrificing of slaves to Sith,
and the conjuring of Sith's demonic servants in the
mesa-top temple for consultations.

He was also the head of the city's Caarth and Justrali
warriors, and one of the trio of leaders of the Caarth
nation. The power of the Snake [’cople has been on the
wane in recent years, for they have been penned into
the desert regions by the colder climates of the north:
ern and southern lands, and they have had little new
territory to ovenvhelm. They are also using up their

THE FORCES OF EVIL AND CHAOS &

The Caorth Citadel of Sturrat

supply of slaves from the subhumans who live on the
fringes of the Desert of Skulls, and cannot roam
further afield for them. Sith has not been able to
concentrate on their problems, as she has been distrac-
ted by another civil war with her fellow Demon
Princes. In the meantime, in Allansia, Ishtra‘s Lizard
Men have been creeping ever closer to the edge of the
temperate wastes known as the Snakelands, which
divide the Desert of Skulls from Vymorna on the edge
of the southern jungles. The Lizard Men may have
been held at the Siege of Vymorna for a short while,
but It can only be a matter of time before they push
towards the territory of the Snake People. When this
time comes the fighting will be fierce and bloody, as
the whole of the southern lands will be plunged into
war,

The Lizard Men of the
Southern Jungles

The gruesome Snake People are common to both
Allansia and Khul, though it is in the former that they
are really powerful. This is also true for the Lizard
Men, though their successes far overshadow thuse of
the Caarth, It is looking increasingly likely, to sages
and scholars who know of such things, that the :nain
threat to humanity on Allansia will soon be the Lizard
Man Empire, which already covers an arca larger than
all the settled parts of Allansia put together. Until
fairly recently, however, few learned men were able to
gican much information about the Lizard Men. for
they would try to kill any human they came across,
9%) TITAN ~ THE FIGHTING FANTASY WORLD

whether he was a heavily armed warrior or a poor
defenceless sage. But only four years ago, the great
mystic Ar-Kalagon of Kaynlesh-Ma managed to cap-
ture a Lizard Man warrior, and subject his mind toa
form of magical interrogation. He cast several
hypnotic enchantments on the gross, leathery being,
and then magically read the contents of his mind ina
scrying pool. Ar-Kalagén learnt much about the
Lizard Man culture. ..

IN THE BEGINNING

During the Godtime, there were many lesser deities,
including gods of all the animals. Among these was a
very sly and ambitious god, who is known to those on
the Earthly Plane as Suthis Cha. When the greater
gods began fashioning human-shaped creatures to
people the world, Suthis Cha became very jealous of
them, for he considered his own lizard form to be the
most beautiful of all shapes (he was arrogant and
concelted, as well as sly and ambitious}. So whenever
the gods were working on their creations, Suthis Cha
ensured that he was close at hand, quietly walching
and remembering how creatures were shaped, in
preparation for the time when he would create his
own beings, to bring his image to the face of the world,

The First Battle began, with the evil powers fighting to
overcome the Forces of Good and wrest control of the
universe from thern. All the gods and lesser deities
were drawn into the conflict ~ all, that is, save Suthis
Cha, Being blessed with some slight powers of divina-
tion, the scaly god had foreseen the coming battle, and
seized his chance to slip away unnoticed. So when the
battle was at its height, Suthis Cha was on the Earthly
Plane, carving and moulding the first Lizard Men from
swamp mud and lizard skins. He hid his creations
away in the swamplands of Titan, knowing they
would be safe there, out of sight of the other gods and
their own creations, and retumed to the Outer Planes.
Upon returning he encountered the tiny mouse god,
Karreep, cowering with fright in a quiet corer of the
Halls of the Gods, There was no one else around, so
Suthis Cha gave in to temptation and did something
he had been desperately wanting to do for many a long
aeon — he ate Karreep. The mouse god was, however,
& god, and fought back with all his might. Suthis Cha
choked to death (in so far as a god can die - he
transmuted), as the small furry thing grew and stuck
in his throat, before hopping out as the scaly deity
crashed to the marble floor of the Halls of the Gods.

The Lizard Men thrived in the swamplands, and
quickly became even more cunning than their four-
legged relations. Without a god, however, they were
disorganized and unambitious, preferring simply to
swim about their marshy domains, hunt smaller
beings, climb trees, sun themselves and generally
have a lazy time of it. As the Dark Lords recovered
from their exile in the aftermath of the First Battle,
however, one noticed the scaly little things which ran
around in the swamps and jungles of Titan, and asked
the Snake Demon Ishtra to investigate. The crafty
Demon Prince did morc than that ~ he appeared to the
Lizard Men while they were gathering for their regular
midsummer’s eve spawning, asa gigantic Lizard Man,
spitting fire and wiclding a flaming sword against the

setting sun. The Lizard Men abased themselves before
him, and they have worshipped his unholy form from
that moment on. In time, various other gods and
deities were introduced into Lizard Man culture by
their powerful priests, including Myurr, another
Demon Prince, and numerous lesser Demons and
reptilian gods. Ishtra also brought the taint of Chaos to
the race, initially to create the powerful two-headed
priests who would act as his focus for ruling over the
Lizard Man race ~ but this also brought the curse of
mutation 10 ordinary Lizard Men,

THE LIASH CHA

Not all two-headed Lizard Men are priests, but all
Lizard Man priests have two heads. They are an élite
class among the Lizard Men, known properly as the
Liash Cha, and they have the power to do almoat
anything they wish. They dress in particular ways
(they are the only Lizard Men allowed to wear the
sacred colour red, for example), have their own
language and are the only Lizard Men able to write.
The centre for the priesthood is the Temple to Ishtra,
in the centre of the Silur Cha swamplands, about
fifteen leagues away from the capital city, Silur Cha.
Part monastery and part astronomical observatory, it
is home to severs! thousand two-headed priests and
their servants, who spend all their time in performing,
rituals, sacrifices, prayers and other unholy duties.
The priests have collected a great store of knowledge
over the centuries, much of it unknown to elvilized
man, for they have peculiarly logical, unemotional
minds which seem able to grasp some philosophical
questions much better than men or Elves can. Their
observatories are sophisticated to a degree unheard of
in civilized lands, and they have learnt much about the
universe and its workings.

On the other hand, their cold, calculating, uneme-
tional natures make them crucl and violent, for they
have no feelings for other creatures, or even other
members of their own race. The Liash Cha believe,
above all things, in the purity of their race, which they
have been taught (by Ishtra) to consider the high point
of all of Nature’s creations. They despise the mutant
Lizard Men asa result, and sacrifice many to the gods
to appease them, and to try to persuade them to stop
the curse of Chaos. Living sacrifices are common, and
many of their captives suffer this fate,

THE LIZARD KINGS

Although the priests run the religious side of the
Lizard Men’s life, the politics are cared for by the
Lizard Kings. Each tribe is ruled over by a Lizard King,
and they in turn pay fealty to the Council of Thirteen,
who sit in Silur Cha, the Lizard Men’s capital in the
southern swamplands of Allansia. The Lizard Kings
may once have belonged to the same species, but now
they are a distinct race, being much larger and
stronger, and with grealer mental powers = though
they will never match those of the Liash Cha, It is
believed that they are telepathic, able to keep in touch
with all other members of thelr race by thought alone,
though the extent of this communication is not
known. Lizard Kings also seem to have some form of
empathic hold over their people, for when a Lizard
King is killed on the field of battle, his troops immedi-
ately become confused and disorientated, as if they
were suddenly being released from hypnosis in a
strange, unfamiliar place. Whatever the truth of this,
the Lizard Kings do hold the ordinary Lizard Men in
their scaly grip, and have the power of life and death
over the entire Lizard Man Empire.

The Council of Thirteen Is led by the High King, the
Luk Ten Cha, who is widely believed to be a physical
embodiment of their gods, sent to the Earthly Plane to
watch over the Lizard Men, When he dies (Lizard
Kings live to around 130 years, almost twice the span
of normal Lizard Men), it is believed that he is reborn
that same instant, as his life-force passes into a new-
born Lizard Man freshly hatched in the egg chambers
of the palace. When the new child reaches thirteen
years old, he is brought before the Liash Cha, who
perform the Ritual of Remembering, during the course
of which the Luk Ten Cha slowly begins to remember
all his past lives, and all his past knowledge, and Is
then ready to take his place as ruler of the Lizard Man
Empire once more. In the intervening thirteen years,
each member of the Council in turn rules the land fora
year.

THE FORCES OF EVIL AND CHAOS 91

ri ee f 2s ol
aan Hi
Vi" HH} Atk:

’ | it

|
'

‘~

GA

NTs

MA RAIPPRUAI NI ee a7

4

ee ahah |

EGAN: ATO
TYTVTUTTENN LTT NTRS Su Wii
A i |

TNT Eg

Tine
Mill L Biel
Whitin te

WMD)
NX tm ran

LIZARD MAN LANGUAGE

indulge in everyday small talk anyway.

Lizard Men use a very strange language, where every slight inflection of the voice, wave of a hand, or
position of a tail means something completely different. The word ‘Cha’, for example, can mean ‘us’, ‘we’,
‘him’, ‘I’, ‘Lizard Men’, ‘religious’, ‘good’, ‘beautiful’, ‘swampy’, ‘delicious’ and ‘to give orders’, Owing to
their swampland habitat, Lizard Men have over a hundred names for different conditions of the swamp,
and they can recognize a great many different types of grass and tree which all look identical to us humans.

The Liash Cha have their own language, which deals almost exclusively with high-powered religious and
philosophical arguments. They ate almost unable to carry on a normal conversation in it, though they rarely

92 TITAN - THE FIGHTING FANTASY WORLD.

SILUR CHA, THE LIZARD MAN CITY

‘The High King, the Luk Ten Cha, dwells ina ganic
towering palace at the very centre of the bzaere ety of
Slur Chay whlch isl is right at the conte ofthe
Lard Man Empire, inthe southern swamplands of
‘Allania, Sitar ‘Cha hae been built out over the
‘swamps, and much fitestsupon wooden platforms,
‘wth any the most important buildings having stone
foundations (aruallycreted by mapialy transmit
fing ed ofthe quagenie ilo solid rock, a process
which equies a great many spells and innumerable
‘ealces). The Lizard Mon have other fortifeations
and other ties dotted around their Empire, bat Sar
Chas the erowning gory of al of them. has taken
several thousand Years a rach ts present form, andit
Js being added to all the tne, asthe Lizard Mer’
over grows ever stronger

Slur Cha is a maze of temples, dwvelings, open
‘woodea walkways (oth on the susface and way up in
the sky), towers, baracks, wide squares, pools aed
steams, all cut out of the swampland ite
“Bverywheris decorated with carvingsat Lizard Men,
‘ther gos, history and bates. Siur Cha situated on
{great U-shaped curve in the nameless ver whlch
‘waters the sramplands. The Lizard Men are not used
to being salors, but thor strangely proportioned and
barely decorated boats regulaely ply up and down
‘the jungle and swamplend riers which they contol,
and can eceasionally be seen out at $03, frying
‘supplies # one af their outlying colonies. On a few
‘ectasons, way back before the War of the Wizard,
the Lizard Men actually fought seaballles apsins
‘other nations, though there are now feve rations with
‘ects strong enough to fight such bates,

LIZARD MAN SOCIETY

Atte top of Liza Man soiety, we know thee ae
‘the Lizard Kings and the Lash Cha, the tworheaded
Dress. But what of the regular Lizard Men? Most
hell in thos, which are subdivide into foes,
[ach tribe has ta own aaa, as wollasitsovn peculiar
ties of dress, language, weopans and so of Lizard
‘Men offen paint thei bodies with markings which
litingish them from other tabes, and they also use
‘eas and cuts on ther bodies forthe same purpose.
‘Thetribesareeach ruled byaLizard King, who usually
lives in some splendour atthe heart of the iba
terior, taking tibutes inthe form of servants, fod
and goods Fom his people

Atypical Lizard Man family i made p ofbetecenten
land thirty creatures, who all vel in the same area of
the swamp. Their houses come in many diferent
shapes and constructions. Inthe hear of the svamps,
they may be wooden cabins perched on legs sunk
deep Into the sludge, or tee-houses with earful,
tworen rope bridges linking wooden platforms. On
‘more solid land, Lizard Men are likely to five in buts,
‘which are made of mud and branches, and are
hdled aginst one athe to create aloe, pra
‘ng buldlng with fts of mall rooms,

‘Many Lizard Men especially females and adolescents)
‘spend thele days hunting for food in the swamplands,

aa aS 4

using snares, spears and evan thelr teeth and brute
Suength to catch food for the family. Some purse
‘als, such ae vine-weaving, carpentry or weapon
‘aking, while others teach the younger member of
{he tebe the rudiments of hunting and other skis In
thectesand towns, and especalyinSilur Cho, there
ae traders, slive-masters, metal workers and other
fraflsmen, just as in a human city, though there are
Siffeences, Lizard Men have lille need fr fie they
lve in very warm climates, et all thei food without
cookingit and can eee inthe dark-anditis only really
‘sed fr smelting metal and at ceremonial occasions
‘The priests, however, delight in using i, for they
‘know the effect has on others,

‘May Lizard Men are enlisted into the armies of the
Lizatd Man Empl, serving thelr kings forthe greater
sory of the Liar Man race in many parts of the
Southern lands. Indeed, fr mutated Lard Men, the
lnm isthe only choice open for them, forthey are not
allowed to join tibesand are never allowed intoa city
ligesiturCha without special permission oras part ofa
serving atalion. They are outcast from the whole of
society, andl are ‘encouraged! to srve in the amy,
‘where good use Is made of thele prodigious strength.

ARMY AND EMPIRE

A Lizard Man fighting wnitsnayconslt ofbetween six
find thirty solders. Each unit belongs to an informal
Tegiment of up toa thousand warors, commanded,
lllmately by Lizard King throwgh a succession of
‘plains. These are always 2 dozen or so Liash Ch
Serigned tos regiment too, forthe spiritual welfare of
{he Uoope isan important factor in deving them to
itry against the unclean humans.

Dilforent units are assigned ferent tasks in battle
‘There might bo a deathesquad of mutants, who wil
Jead the force int he fay, driven by an inane frenzy
which ls iell sometimes enough to rout their
‘opponents and send them Aeing fom the fold of
combat. The “sapper’ are adept at destroying cy
sralls and gates by using battering rams, catapultsand
the pulling power of Giant Lizeds, and sometinas
‘very doiate magical explosives areadministecd by a
Pest, There ae slo cavalry units, mounted on Gant
ears and semi-tame Dinossurs lke Styracosurs.
“There have bees reports from the Sioge of Vora
that some Lizané Man nts have managed £0 tame
Plerodactyis and Peranodons, to create ternfying
una Even if his sno true, surely only a matter
fof Uiebefore they do develop sch faces. The Lizard
‘Man rmiesare slong and well ined, and are easily
‘match for any hums sem

‘The Lizard Man which ArKalogn of Kaynlesh-Ma
captured wasa soldier, serving with regiment caled
the Kreashian Kux Cha, oF ‘the Divine Gougers of
‘Whiteskin’s Eyes He sor servic at vasious bales,
including the Slog of Vymoma, which ssi contin
ing. The regiment was made up a5 follows

Commander: ‘The Divine Lard King, Yuri erin
Che

26 Lizard Men, the Divine
Sloughterers, together with 8
standard-bearer, heralds and.
messengers

13 tworheaded priests, the Divine
Vengeance of Ihtra

266 mutant Lard Men, the Divine
Sear of Chaos

10 mounted Lizant Men, half om
Ghat Lizards, ballon Styracosaut,
the Divine Mounted Deatbringers
1,326 Lizard Men divided into 58
tis of between 7 and 28 troops,
known by many names but
calletvely a the Divine Gougers
Who Shall Bring Death to all

125 Lizard Men the Divine
Cotacyam of Stone

138 servants, baggage-handles,
food-foragers, ee

Royal guard:

Warpriests:
Shock troops:
vary

Regulars:

Sapper:

Others:

‘The Lzatd Man Empire stretches over much of the
souther lands of Allasa, fom the edges of the
(thankfully impassable) Mountains of Grief nthe fa
South, aceoss the whole ofthe immense swarmpands
ts far as the edges of the Plan of Bones, and north as,
fae asthe Vymom River and the ety of V¥moma,
‘which ssiil~[ust~held by homans. Acrostheother

‘THE FORCES OF EVIL AND CHAOS 93

For six years now, the combined forces of magic,
explosives, battringvams and sheer weight of
‘numbers have been slamming against the walls of
‘theancient city on the mouth ofthe Vymorn Rive.
TRwvas ance am inporiant focus al the northern end
‘ofthe Gelfof Sharma, with taders coming fom as
faraway a8 Salamonis in the far north Ieused 10
havea population approaching 100,00 people, bat
they have been reduced olitie more than ater
tieth ofthat over the sl yes thatthe slag as
lasted. The kingof Vymoma, AlexandrosTl, died in
a massive assault which breached the penlimate
Wall ast yer, and the troops ae now led by his
wefe, Queen Perc, who fights on the wall with
the troops. The people know Vymorna must fl,
Dut they Hight on, hoping i their heuts that they
wl buy time for the other cites to prepare their
‘own defences against the seges to come.

be ee

Sido ofthe Gulf of Shamuz, the Lizard Men contolall
the jungle lands from the Snakelands to the edges of

ats They have otpostsas fa north as Fire flan
(though this is thought to have fallen recently, 35 no
‘word has been sent by is command fr some time
‘ow, as well as dotted along the Skull Coast and the
‘wastelands north ofthe Piste Coast, There are alco
‘tposts on Khul though they are mach les impor
nt fo the Emplze, being smaller an les organized,
fad sikted in rather desolate areaa such as the
Soythera Desert and the angles beyond Marad across
the Inland Sea

94 TITAN — THE FIGHTING FANTASY WORLD

Dark Elves — Servants of the
Night

You know, adventurer, of the great friendship which
Elves can give you on your travels around Titan. But
not all Elves, it must be said, are on the same side. We
made slight reference to the Dark Elves earlier; now
we will examine them more closely. [Information on
the Dark Elves is limited, for they are a proud, secret-
ive and above all very perilous race, and are not prone
to allowing sages and scholars to wander around their
underground domains, even for academic research!
What litde we know of the ways of the Dark Elves has
been gleaned from human and Dwarf slaves who have
escaped from their subterranean prisons.

THE PARTING OF THE WAYS

Way, way back at the beginning of the first age of life
on Titan, after the First Battle, when the gods departed
to take their places in the heavens, the world was
populated by several major races. There were the
short-lived, youthful humans, the stout, inquisitive
Dwarfs and the graceful, spiritual Elves. As you learnt
from our previous treatise on the good Elves, the race
grew in power and learning, bringing unity and lore to
many parts of Titan. Elves were the elders of the
world, the wise rulers and the advisers. They kept
themselves pretty much to themselves, living in their
forest villages and palaces, but occasionally ventured
out into the world to give aid where it was needed.
Their numbers were never very greal, for their near-
immortality is balanced by a lack of children, but their
race thrived far more than any other at that time.

Some Elves, however, became disenchanted by the
neutral attitude of the Elven peoples. They believed
that since the Elves were the wisest, the longest-lived,
the most skilled and the strongest of all races, they

were natural candidates for being the lords and mas-
ters of all the other races. In the unceasing conflicts
with Orcs, Goblins and other servants of Chaos, they
felt that they should be the leaders, the gencrals and
commanders of an army which could then be
organized to cleanse the vileness from the face of the
land. The Elven Council did not agree to such
demands, however, and persisted in upholding the
non-conunittal stance taken by all Elves since long
before the rise of Orcs and their ilk,

The leader of one of the Elven clans, Prince Viridel
Kerithrion, was the most vociferous of all those argu-
ing for greater power and strength. A brave and noble
warrior, he had proved himself a hero in many
engagements against the Forces of Evil. Asa result, he
was respected by the majority of the Council, though
some feared his rather active nature; it is not normally
the way of Elves to get physically involved in the petty
struggles of lesser mortals, except by offering advice
and some token assistance, Elves know that they will
still be walking the world when all wars have been
forgotten, and it makes them wary of offering physical
aid in the manner adopted by Prince Kerithrion.

Unknown to Elves outside his own clan, however,
Virtdel was an acolyte of Slangs, god of malice, who
was known to the Elves as Ar Anwar Gerithan, ‘Grey
Whisperer of Shadows’. The god had been wor-
shipped since the Time of Legends by Elves who
wished to learn more about the transient ways of
humans and other short-lived races. Ar Anwar
Gerithan was considered, by those Elves who studied
him, to be the embodiment of the human spirit -
malicious, petty, vengeful and violent, As an acolyte
of Ar Anwar Gerithan, it is not surprising that Prince
Kerithrion had as much interest in the affairs of
humans as in those of the Elves,

Finally the Elven prince could no longer stand back
and condone the non-committal stance taken by the
Elves. Gathering together all the warriors of his clan,
and of the other clans who thought much the same as
he did, Kerithrion marched on the Elven Council,
which at the time was based in a Large citadel on the
edge of what is now the Flatlands, and after slaughter-
ing over two dozen other clan leaders he and his rebels
seized power over the Elven nations.

THE FORCES OF EVIL AND CHAOS 95

Tesarmth. Symbol: @
land for farming, food-transportation.

Mirisgroth, Symbol: «tt

*-
S-¢

Comcarmeyer, Symbol: Loy
tion, the royal guard.

Kerithrion. Symbol:

THE MAJOR CLANS OF TIRANDUIL KELTHAS

black bectle's head on silver diamond, Main areas of control: insect-farming, food-preparation, clearance of

green gemstone on narrow black bar. Main areas of control: mining, metal-working and smelting.

octagon-shaped white skull. Main areas of control: slave-procurement (surface raids), security, assassina-

silver dagger and crown. Main areas of control; the ruling family,

Unluckily, he had missed the Council’s leaders,
including King Glorien Thelemas and his sons, and
most of the stronger clan princes too. Thelemas’s
queen, Aricl Aurtindol, had the power of divining the
future, and in a dream the night before, she had seen
Kerithrion’s forces marching on the Council. There
was no time to warn the rest, but she persuaded the
king and his family to be absent on that fateful day.

Reaction to Kerithrion’s take-over was not long in
coming, and within three day's a massive Elven army
was camped around the palace of the Council, For
nineteen days they fought with the rebels, pounding
the walls to dust with catapults and powerful sorcery,
but on the twentieth a trio of Viridel’s captains
marched out of the ruins waving the green banners of
truce, and asking to talk terms. They were accepted,

and were brought before King Thelemas. While the
peace talks were continuing in the king's tent,
however, the rest of the rebel forces slipped away
through tunnels they had been building for the last
seventeen days (for they had quickly realized they
could not hope to win against the united Elven armies,
regardless of how long they held on to their well-
defended position). The parleying captains dragged
out the talks until after sunset, before agreeing to
return to their own side and deliver Thelemas's orders
for the surrender and then lead out all the rebels. The
captains returned to the palace, their way picked out
by hundreds of blazing torches which the defenders
appeared to have lit for them, The king's forces waited
until dawn, but neither the captains nor Kerithrion and
the rest of the rebels appeared. Attacks recommenced,
but it was soon obvious that the rebels had fled.

9 TITAN - THE FIGHTING FANTASY WORLD

“They releeated only as foros Kesithlon'snativelands,
however, where they attempted to declare an
lndependentnation.Inan unusually seiftmoveforan
Ef, Tholemas ordered his aries ino Kentvion's
lands, Many bates and skirmishes fllowed, before
the bel Elves retented into the mountains (i a
western area of the highlands nove known as the
‘Moonstone Hill), and fom there underground, tk
ing over an alrbutabandoned Dwaet cy” which
[Ketithon had earmarked ae afinabolt olein caseall
his plane came to naught, The rebel Elves sealed the
vay behind them, and theking gave up theehase. The
Counc palace wos pulled down toneby stone, anda
rev oneconseucted many leagues distant. The rebels
pissed quickly fom the memeries of the Elves, their
Estions were neverrecorded inthe histories, and with
the str of the fist ofthe Orc Was soon alle, the
Elven nations were far loo occupled in defending heir
precious fret

‘THE UNDERGROUND CITIES

In the darkness underground, the rebels thrived fr
butler than anyone could have known. They explored
reny inch of thelr lightles domain, and began 10
‘apt tole without sunlight, Necessity made them.
lesen gully they discovered how to grow fungus
‘nd moss for food, and hove to breed lizards and giant
fect, They ler howto work 0ck, and expanded.
‘Westar wall Ihey chanced upon a series of natura
‘aver deep under Darkivood Forest in what i now
northwestern Allansn. Over the centuces they grew
"trong agin but they changed too, slowly teing in
thei taolation inte true creatures of davkness. Thee
‘worship of Ar Anwar Gerithan grev stronger il but
{hey ako picked up other deities ~ perilous beings
such asthe Demon Prince Mur, and many others,
“They changad from creatures of fight and truth and
beauty inte a sckeningly decadent race of ghoulish
DDemon-worshippers ~ the Dark Elves.

Now they dwellunder Darkvood, and thereare small
lindengraund colonies in other parts of Allansia a5
Wwe Recent romour ell ofa Datk El scouting party
boing seen in nortveaster Khul, though what they
vere doing there, 20 far from home anyone's gues.
‘The Wood Elves know of them again now, forthe
Darkside Eves continue to send small aiding patios
paint their surfacedweling brethren, whom they
Ina with every fibre of theie being. To the Wood
Elves they are io beter than Ores or oles leash, and
they give no quarter to any they encounter

“Their city is called Darkside, known a Teanduil
Kelihas tots inhabitants, andat isa wondrous place It
Febrile nam enormous natural cavern, it ony by the
‘dim low of phosphorescent plants and fungus snd
iimmesng lanterns, When the Dark Elves fist,
Started foconsrucl they bogan by sing tadiona
Elven achtecture, bt gradually the styles changed,
Aanditis now abizare, sted place, with owers and
Walls jtting ost at many different levels, ond
Alecoraled everyshere with insane carvings of the
tiy’sadopled demonic patrons, Linked tothe ouside
‘world By'a succession of mazedike passages, exch
blocked by gigantic carved stone doors and guarded.
bby many Baek Elves ofthe sinister Clan Caeser,

itis fascinating and tebe place, a aty of shadows
and Demons, of slaves and dark magic: Alleys twist
4nd wind between the weirdly shaped houses:
Squares may be surrounded by wall so that no one
fan enter them nightmarish pavks and gactens line
fer inthe ight of oped fieles, while giant beetles
feuttle in the mossy undergrowth, Atthe ver centre
‘of TiandailKelthas there ete Palace of Kertheon,
the Ait Lindl Keren, named after the city’s
founder, and after the clan tehich sil rles aver the
ly. Bull out of Back crystal, towers over the Gy
Tike the Grim Reaper, a6 watching ts elzens lke 8
‘vulture wating fora dying creature to breathe it ls,

Lifein Dathsideis very diferent from that ofthe Wood.
ves inthe forests above ground. In thelr subter-
ranean city the Dark Elves have developed ther ovn,
Fighy inlcate sociaty, based on the original rebel
lana, which ae now led by sorcererbings and wit
{queens rather than by wattor princes, All Dirk Eves
Belong toa paciculay can, which aes as an extended
family. Each lan haste avn name, symbols, bedges
of office, headquarters, and area ofthe cy, wheres
rules are Taw and where members of other cans
require specfc permission to walk Many have their
‘wn speci languages and signs, which allow mem
bers to recognize one another without the need for
symbole, all worship their own special demonic
potoas. lan sealres ao great, and there ae vay
Intiguce afoot atthe higher levels of Dork Elf socety
szeach ln tres o wrest some smal faction of power
from the others. Rivalries between the cans regularly
lead to asassnations, arson and in some cies full
scale sLughter, which usually ony stops when the

ritying Clan Cameameyar sep in. They are never
allied to anyone, for al fear them they are uitimately
logaloniy tothe continuation ofthe Dark Erace, and
the city of Trandull Kelas

‘A RACE OF PRINCES

While there are some paupers among the ctzons of
‘iran Kelthas, as thre are inal ees, most Dark
Elves lve very comfortable lives, The great wealth
‘extracted from the enthby the slaves in the lor and
‘copper mines has meant that money means ie #9
ack Elves, nd al bt the very poorest of them are
‘weighed dovin with masses of sliver - around hele
reeks, west and ankles, wound into their Rae,
woven into. theic clothes, engraved into thelr
‘Weapons painted in tracereson ther skin and soon
[Every ifn Darkside elated to the nobility in some
‘way, andall Dak Elves have a egal espectall the
‘women, Datk Elf womten have an unearthly bent,
{ar goats than that of any hupnan, with thei velvet
black skin, whiter slvr hair ar totally green eyes,
fn thelr beauty ls gveallyenhanesd by the Bie
Fashions in clothing and decoration which have de-
veloped over centuries in complete isolation frm
lose of the outside woud. The whole atmosphere of
Daetside ands tzensie simultaneously slay and
dissimilar othe world above ground, with the resul
that It fainy disoienating and distuting, to
anyone who is not 2 Dark El

lven noble soiety is very competitive, with the
fairest witch-qucens of Daskside competing agaist
‘one another at every opportunity. Lavish banquets of
‘arefungusand potent mose-winesarecommon, with
everyone present attempting to scoce points off one
another with aeis of disdain, btchiness and even,
Violence. Despite their trib regal bearing all Dock
Eves havea sreak of pure eu ning through hele
characters, hich on accasion makes thes very nasty

‘TRADE AND SLAVERY

‘The merchants of Darkside have more power than
their counterpart in surlace towns, forthe procu
ment of food, enengy, slaves and precious stale
‘requires caret planing and organization inthe at
fical environment of the underground city. While
Dark Elves are feared hy al races (fr they will makes,
slave ofjust about anyone, ifthey can, they do trade
‘with some Orc and Hil Trl tribes, giving silver and
fms in exchange for hurnan and Dwar slaves, nes
Bint insects and manufactured items. Dack El mer-
hans meet with Ores once every month of 3, bring
ing their goods on the hacks of lamed Giant Lizards
and mussive spiders # neutral caverns neat the sue
face, here all exchanges ae made

‘Slaves ae also very important tothe unig of th
cites, for the Dark Elves are continually expanding
‘theiravemsand mining for more preciousmetale std
gems Slaves are ural taken in raids onthe surface,
though some are exchanged during trade with other
fev acs. Humans are mist common, for they ara the
tesest to obtain, but Dials aze the most popular,
because of thes hardy nature (which can tke al the
segolr beatings the Daek Elves inflel upon their
tapives) and Because they know hove ta work toc
land find the bes seams of meta, Orcs, Tolls and
Goblins are sometimes used forthe most menial asks,
but they are weak, spiilesseeatures, and the Dare
Eves often ll them before their time out of
Frastation

‘THE FORCES OF EVIL AND CHAOS 97

Tradl Kats - the Dr EY iy

"Elves are never keptas slaves, Those who do not dein
{he ial encounter (ince Datk Elves inspire Wood
Elves o amazing acts of suicidal fury) or who agent
slaughtered immedtey after, are commandeered by
the sorcerers and witches for eventsal sncifce in one
‘of theie hore tes, though most will be tortured
internally uni this happens, Despite theie muta
tions and deprivations, Wood Elves have never been
[known utter a single word to theie Dark El captors,
‘or evento cry out in pai, and dhe Dark Elves have
never lett saything fom their Elven captives,

RAIDING THE SURFACE WORLD

Slavesare exchanged forsitverand gems with the Ores

nd Hil Tells, ad captured in ads onthe surlace
Such tlds are usualy eaeid ext by members of the
Clan Camearneyar, who creep about the dackened
forests at night in raiding parties of not more than
flight hidden by Back aoaks and clothing, and by
ptolectve mage which shields them even fom the
heightened senses ofanimals. They usualy pk upon
isolated farmstesds or small hamlets, where they
‘know they wil not be opposed by more than a dozen
Inumans oe Dvarfs, and always vit un the mon
has et before attaching,

‘They fist spread out around the nrget, and then cast
blanket of spells to stop them being detected by form
animals, who might wake the inhabitants, Flanng
frows on fo the toot launch the atack, and are
followed by a full-scale assault onal sess the Dock
Elves breakin through windows and doors, dispose of
any resistance with thelrlong, jagged knives, anda,
theircaptives offintothe night. Thesaiders othe Clan
CCameaeneyar prow! the surface rd most nights,
ranging further and further afc in thelr search for
victims

98 TITAN — THE FIGHTING FANTASY WORLD

bo

ARS |

|

‘ (

SORCERER-KINGS AND WITCH-
QUEENS - THE SHAERN KERITHRION

The highest of all Dark Elves are the clan leaders, and
the highest of all clan leaders are those of Clan Kerith-
rion, who govern the city as its royal family and reside
in Ait Lindalé Kerithrion, the Palace of Kerithrion, at
the heart of the dark city. The Clan Kerithrion is
headed by a council of five, the Shaém Kerithrion,
who rule partly by common consent, and partly by
playing the other members of the circle against one
another.

King Elden Kerithriox. He is the nominal leader of the
Clan Kerithrion, and therefore king of Tiratiduil Kel-
thas and ruler of the Dark Elf race. In truth, he is
getting very old and weak, and retiring intoa paranoid
world where everyone around him is a threat to his
rule, He trusts no one any more, least of all his sister
Velicoma, and he leaves his chambers in Aid Lindalé
Kerithrion only to attend the most important council
meetings. He isan acolyte of the Demon Prince Myurr,
whom he contacted by offering up his mother in living
sacrifice several centuries previously. Myucr has told
him that the throne of Kerithrion is threatened by the
flaw of insanity, and Eilden is now waiting for mad-
ness to show itself in one of the other four rulers —not
realizing that it is he who is the flaw.

Princess Velicoma Endal Kerithrion. Unlike her brother,
wham she plans to kill any day now, Vellooma isin full
command of her faculties, and has no illusions about
any of the other four, She is the High Priestess of
Darkside, and officiates at all Important sacrifices. She
too serves the Demon Prince Myurt, and it was she
who first suggested that they explolt the paranoid side
of King Eilden’s character. Princess Velicoma is a
ruthless, emotionless witch, and most Dark Elves feel
afraid of her, without quite knowing why. She
appears to be cold and icy, but very efficient and
practical, and she deals harshly with foolishness,
Around her there is an almost tangible aura of threat,
due partly to confident arrogance and partly to pure
evil. Should she ever come to power, everyone hopes
they will not be the ones she makes examples out of.

Prince Astréa and Princess Leya Garethrim, Astréa and
Leya are cousins of the king and his evil sister, and
they act as a balancing force in the council. They are
calm and intelligent, and have little time for Eilden’s
paranoia and Velicoma’s schemings. They are wor-
shippers of Ar Anwar Gerithan (Slangg), but some-
how manage to offset his evil teachings with a careful
concer for the proper workings of Dark Elf society. If
Eilden and Velicoma get caught in a power-struggle
against each other, they will be able to take control of
Tiranduil Kelthas with the minimum of fuss, for Leya
is the wife of Prince Taragal Camcarneyar, head of the
Clan Camcarneyar,

Prince Menet Ithitkir. The hothead of the Shaéen Kerith-
rion, Menel spends much of his time on surface raids
with members of the Clan Camcameyar and rarely has
any time for the workings of Darkside politics. This is a
great pity, for he is usually on the same side as the
Garathrim, and could help them swing the power of
the council towards a lighter, more workable base. As
itis, he only attends council meetings when important
military actions are being considered, or when an
especially bloody sacrifice of a captured Wood EIf
nobleman is due to be part of the entertainment, In
truth, he is only a member of the Shaérn Kerithrion
because he is head of the [thilkir branch of the clan,
following the recent death of his much stronger
mother at the hands of a nameless poisoner; this Is
widely suspected to be another of Velicoma’s littl:
plots, but was in fact the work of Astréa and Leya,

The five members of the Shaérn Kerithrion live in
separate parts of the palace, each protected by armed
guards and strong magic ‘just in case", If they were ever
to unite, the Dark Elves would finally be organized
enough to look beyond surviving day to day, They
would be able to make plans for a return to the surface
world, to face the accursed Wood Elves in full battle at
last, and to show them the true meaning of vengeance!

yn A

beet ee

ere... _—_
coe atin a ee

—"

THE FACES OF EVIL AND CHAOS 9%

hb.
THE FACES OF EVIL AND CHAOS

There are many dangerous and Chaotic races on Titan,
working for the complete overthrow of civilization
with the supernatural help of awesome evil powers.
But above all stands one race, as the most evil, most
depraved, most decadent and most dangerous of all -
mankind. For just as man has the capacity for great
good, he also has it in him to do great evil, if he so
desires,

In the years leading up to the cataclysmic War of the
Wizards, the human race was split down the middle,
with one side clearly opposed to the other, and with
no room for neutral bystanders. Today, 280 years after
the collapse, humanity is still struggling to reassert
itself, but already there are men who have followed
the path of Evil to its extremes. Indeed, there are far
too many to detail here; all we can do is concentrate on
those who are perhaps the most important, and shake
our heads in despair for the many we have had to
omit,

Razaak, the Undying One

One hundred years ago, Kazaak was an apprentice to
one of the Lawful wizards of that era. His master’s
name is surprisingly not recorded, but he could quite
easily have been the Grand Wizard of Yore himself,
Vermithrax Moonchaser. He was quite a promising
pupil, as apprentices go, though like many he tried to
run before he could walk. He was fascinated by what
his master told him of the dark magic of shamans,
Dark Elves and Demons. Peering through the ancient
books in his master’s study by the light of a flickering
candle while the old man slept, Razaak quickly
realized that he had the inner strength to become a
powerful necromancer, who would one day be able to
command everyone to obey him. Magic was too pre-
cious a tool to waste on doing gaod ~ he would use it to
bring Allansia to its knees,

That very night, Razaak slipped back to his narrow
bunk, packed all his worldly goods into a small sack,
and left the way of Goodness for ever. He travelled to
the remole wastes at the far side of the Flatlands,
where he meditated and studied and practised the
arcane arts in complete solitude fur forty years, until
he knew that his powers had become so great that he
was a necromancer, capable of bringing the dead back
to Ife to be his slaves! He felt confident, at Jast, that
Allansia would soon be his.

Razaak sent messages to all the nobles of the land,
demanding that they acknowledge him as their
ultimate ruler. But they had never heard of him, and
they ignored his threats as the work of just another
Junatic sorcerer. Razaak’s response came in the form
of thousands of black insects, who brought plague and
pestilence to all lands. He sent another message to all
the rulers, this time with a deadline: they had until the
next full moon-to acknowledge his leadership, or

\

things would get even worse, Many warriors were
dispatched to slay Razaak, but all died in the attempt.

At last the warrior named simply Kull arrived. He
owned a sword which he had found gripped in a
skeletal hand projecting out of a mist-veiled lake, high
up in the Moonstone Hills, which he was crossing on
his raft. It was an enchanted blade, able to cut through
the thickest plate-mail without its razor-sharp edge
being dulled of notched. The sword had once
belonged to Razaak himself, and was the one sword in
all of Titan which could harm him! As part of his final
pact with the demonic deities who accepted him into
their ranks as a necromancer, Razaak had to discard all
weapons save only for the sacrificial knives which he
consecrated to Evil as part of his initiation. But there
was no way of destroying his sword, so he threw it
into the Lake - from where it rose in the hands of the
skeleton! An incredible twist of fate worthy of Logaan
the Trickster himself brought the blade back to Razaak
in the hands of the now invincible Kull.

But as the blade bit home, Razaak cast his curse upon
the warrior, Kull’s skin fell from his bones as dust
around his feet, and he was transformed into a
skeleton, who would wield the sword for ever! The
mindless thing that was once Kull returned to the lake
where he first found that blessed and accursed sword,
and now sails back and forth, awaiting someone to
take it from him and release him into death's sleep,
Razaak’s corpse was sealed in a stone sarcophagus,
which was then placed in a deep fissure high in the
hills, and the evil necromancer was forgotten, In
recent months, however, reports have come through
Trollteoth Pass of famine, pestilence and plague drift-
ing across the Flatlands, The sky has become dark and
menacing, the sun hidden behind 2 wall of grey. The
source of the Evil has been pinpointed as a fissure in
the mountains, blackened by fire and tainted with
Chaos .., could Razaak have been disturbed and

returned to the Earthly Plane?

100 TITAN - THE FIGHTING FANTASY WORLD

Malbordus, the Storm Child

Malbordus is a human sorcerer, a powerful servant of
Evil and Chaos whose time is only now beginning to
dawn. His name means ‘Child of Darkness’ in Low
Elvish, and it was given to him when he was nine by
the Wood Elves of Darkwood Forest. To see the
reasons for such a name, we must go all the way back
to his birth,

Malbordus was born in a battered, ramshackle hut on
the edge of Darkwood Forest in old Allansia, in the
middle of the wildest winter for several hundred
years, Who his mother was, no one knows, but it is
thought she was just a simple peasant crofter, She
certainly could not cope with another child, for the
infant was abandoned in a snow-drift about half a
league into the forest.

That night, black-cowled Dark Elves from Tiranduil
Kelthas, the accursed city of Darkside hidden far
beneath the surface of the world, were abroad in the
forest, worshipping the full moon, Tiriel, with blood-
sacrifices and bizarre rituals. One party, flitting quietly
across the snow without leaving any trace, heard the
child’s cries. They found a pathetic, frozen bundle, a
human child which screamed at the top of its voice.
They took it to their ritual site, and offered him to the
Silent Guardian in the sky for his blessing. He was a
gift from the heavens, and was to be under Tirlel's
protection forever. After the ritual was done, the Dark
Elves slipped away and returned underground to their

city,

THE STORM CHILD

They named the child Aeéren Tintathel, Storm Child,
and reared him in their temple under the protection of
the witch-queen Velicoma Kerithrion. As he grew, he
was introduced by her to the ways of Myurr, the
Demon Prince, and taught the ways of the Dark Elves
as if he were one of them, His pale white face and his
piercing blue eyes were very strange to the black-
skinned Dark Elves, And the raw power of his human
soul did not take long to assert itself.

By the time Aéren was seven years old, he was indis-
tinguishable from young Dark Elf children in every
way except physically; his skin, which seemed to get
whiter as he grew older, marked him out as something
special. But unlike the other children, he carned
within him an intensity of purpose which was
frightening to those to whom he chose to revealit. He
spoke, with deep feelings of hatred and anger, of the
surface-dwellers who had left him to dic in the snow
all those years ago, and talked of a time when he
would remind them of their so-called hurnanity. Such
talk had never been heard in the mouth of sucha small
child before, and Princess Velicoma declared him to be
a gift from the gods (though the gods she meant are
very different to our own).

A year later, the child’s intensity had developed a
stage further, and began manifesting itself in spon-
taneous displays of wild magic. He could snap his
fingers and cause plants to wither and die from sheer

hatred. He would gaze deep into the eyes of a Giant
Lizard ten times his size, or a wild Elven hound that he
found in the street, and the dumb beast would
vacantly follow him wherever he went until it died
from starvation because the child had forgotten to
command it to eat. Aéren was plainly destined to be a
great wielder of the ancient magics.

THE FIRST TEST OF MAGIC

Elven magic is pure and graceful, full of the unstop-
pable power of nature itself, But Dark Elven magic is
vile and degrading, a force of darkness which is so
pure that it puts the cheap darkness of the night to
shame. To be initiated into the very first stage of its
arcane intricacies, a Dark Elf must prove himself or
herself worthy by sume test; a second test will then
follow much later, and will herald the completion of
his or her learning. Most Dark Elves take the initial test
after half a century's study and worship, but the Storm
Child was just turning nine years old when he was
proposed for initiation, For the young Aéren, the test
was one of his own devising. He would go back to the
surface world, where he had not set foot since he was
found in the snow on that terrible winter's night
exactly nine years before, and start the first stage of his
revenge.

And so, on a squally winter's evening, a small, black-
robed shape skipped lightly from the hidden entrance
of the caves which lead down into Tiranduil Kelthas,
and disappeared into the shadows of the foresl. He
did not know where he was going, nor what he was
going to do to prove his worthiness, but he knew that
the nameless beings which he had felt watching over
him for so long would protect him on this night.

Luck, if that is what it was, was with him that night,
for he came, very soon, to an area of thick, tall trees,
where the scent was strongest. His Dark Elven night-
vision picked out the shape of tree-houses, far above

THE FACES OF EVIL AND CHAOS #9

I
THE FACES OF EVIL AND CHAOS \,

There are many dangerous and Chaotic races on Titan,
working for the complete overthrow of civilization
with the supernatural help of awesome evil powers.
But above all stands one race, as the most evil, most
depraved, most decadent and most dangerous of all -
mankind. For just as man has the capacity for great
good, he also has it in him to do great evil, if he so
desires,

In the years leading up to the cataclysmic War of the
Wizards, the human race was split down the middle,
with one side clearly opposed to the other, and with
no room for neutral bystanders. Today, 280 years after
the collapse, humanity is still struggling to reassert
itself, but already there are men who have followed
the path of Evil to its extremes. Indeed, there are far
too many to detail here; all we can dois concentrate on
thase who are perhaps the most important, and shake
our heads in despair for the many we have had to
omit.

Razaak, the Undying One

One hundred years agu, Razaak was an apprentice to
one of the Lawful wizards of that era, His master’s
name is surprisingly rat recorded, but he could quite
easily have been the Grand Wizard of Yore himself,
Vermithrax Moonchaser. He was quite a promising
pupil, as apprentices go, though like many he tried to
run before he could walk. He was fascinated by what
his master told him of the dark magic of shamans,
Dark Elves and Demons. Peering through the ancient
books in his master’s study by the light of a flickering
candle while the old man slept, Razaak quickly
realized that he had the inner strength to become a
powerful necromancer, who would one day be able to
command everyone to obey him. Magic was too pre-
cious a tool to waste on doing good — he would use it to
bring Allansia to its knees,

That very night, Razaak slipped back to his narrow
bunk, packed all his worldly goods into a small sack,
and left the way of Goodness fur ever. He travelled to
the remote wastes at the far side of the Flatlands,
where he meditated and studied and practised the
arcane arts in complete solitude for forty years, until
he knew that his powers had become so great that he
ws a necromancer, capable of bringing the dead back
to life to be his slaves! He felt confident, at last, that
Allansia would soon be his.

Razaak sent messages to all the nobles of the land,
demanding that they acknowledge him as their
ultimate ruler. But they had never heard of him, and
they ignored his threats as the work of just another
lunatic sorcerer. Razaak’s response came in the form
of thousands of black insects, who brought plague and
pestilence to all Jands. He sent another message to all
the rulers, this time with a deadline: they had until the
next full moon-to acknowledge his leadership, or

‘ i

things would get even worse. Many warriors were
dispatched to slay Razaak, but all died in the attempt.

At last the warrior named simply Kull arrived. He
owned a sword which he had found gripped in a
skeletal hand projecting out of a mist-veiled lake, high
up in the Moonstone Hills, which he was crossing on
his raft. It was an enchanted blade, able to cut through
the thickest plate-mail without its razor-sharp edge
being dulled or notched. The sword had once
belonged to Razaak himself, and was the one sword in
all of Titan which could harm him! As part of his final
pact with the demonic deities who accepted him into
their ranks as a necromancer, Razaak had to discard all
weapons save only for the sacrificial knives which he
consecrated to Evil as part of his initiation. But there
was no way of destroying his sword, so he threw it
into the lake — from where it rose in the hands of the
skeleton! An incredible twist of fate worthy of Logaan
the Trickster himself brought the blade back to Razaak
in the hands of the now invincible Kull.

But as the blade bit home, Razaak cast his curse ypon
the warrior. Kull’s skin fell from his bones as dust
around his feet, and he was transformed into a
skeleton, who would wield the sword for ever! The
mindless thing that was once Kull returned to the lake
where he first found that blessed and accursed sword,
and now sails back and forth, awaiting someone to
take it from him and release him into death's sleep.
Razaak's corpse was sealed in a stone sarcophagus,
which was then placed in a deep fissure high in the
hills, and the evil necromancer was forgotten. In
recent months, however, reports have come through
Trolitooth Pass of famine, pestilence and plague drift-
ing across the Flatlands. The sky has become dark and
menacing, the sun hidden behind a wall of grey. The
source of the Evil has been pinpointed as a fissure in
the mountains, blackened by fire and tainted with
Chaos .., could Razaak have been disturbed and
returned to the Earthly Plane?

100 TITAN ~ THE FIGHTING FANTASY WORLD

Malbordus, the Storm Child

Malbordus is a human sorcerer, « powerful servant of
Evil and Chaos whose time is only now beginning to
dawn. His name means ‘Child of Darkness’ in Low
Elvish, and it was given to him when he was nine by
the Wood Elves of Darkwood Forest. To see the
reasons for such a name, we must go all the way back
to his birth.

Malbordus was born in a battered, ramshackle hut on
the edge of Darkwood Forest in old Allansia, in the
middle of the wildest winter for several hundred
years. Who his mother was, no one knows, but it is
thought she was just a simple peasant crofter. She
certainly could not cope with another child, for the
infant was abandoned in a snow-drift about half a
league into the forest.

That night, black-cowled Dark Elves from Tiranduil
Kelthas, the accursed city of Darkside hidden far
beneath the surface of the world, were abroad in the
forest, worshipping the full moon, Tiriel, with blood-
sacrifices and bizarre rituals. One party, flitting quietly
across the snow without leaving any trace, heard the
child's cries, They found a pathetic, frozen bundle, a
human child which screamed at the top of its voice.
They took it to their ritual site, and offered him to the
Silent Guardian in the sky for his blessing. He was a
gift from the heavens, and was to be under Tirel's
protection forever. After the ritual was done, the Dark
Elves slipped away and returned underground to their
city.

THE STORM CHILD

They named the child Aéren Tintathel, Storm Child,
and reared him in their temple under the protection of
the witch-queen Velicoma Kerithrion. As he grew, he
was introduced by her to the ways of Myurr, the
Demon Prince, and taught the ways of the Dark Elves
as if he were one of them. His pale white face and his
piercing blue eyes were very strange to the black-
skinned Dark Elves. And the raw power of his human
soul did not take long to assert itself.

By the time AGren was seven years old, he was indis-
tinguishable from young Dark Elf children in every
way except physically; his skin, which seemed to get
whiter as he grew older, marked him oul as something
special. But unlike the other children, he carried
within him an intensity of purpose which was
frightening to those to whom he chose Lo reveal it. He
spoke, with deep feelings of hatred and anger, of the
surface-dwellers who had left him to die in the snow
all those years ago, and talked of a time when he
would remind them of their so-called humanity. Such
talk had never been heard in the mouth of such a small
child before, and Princess Velicoma declared him to be
a gift from the gods (though the gods she meant are
very different to our own),

A year later, the child’s intensity had developed a
stage further, and began manifesting itself in spon-
tancous displays of wild magic. He could snap his
fingers and cause plants to wither and die from sheer

hatred. He would gaze deep into the eyes of a Giant
Lizard ten times his size, or a wild Elven hound that he
found in the street, and the dumb beast would
vacantly follow him wherever he went until it died
from starvation because the child had forgotten to
command it to eat, Aéren was plainly destined to bea
great wielder of the ancient magics,

THE FIRST TEST OF MAGIC

Elven magic is pure and graceful, full of the unstop-
pable power of nature itself, But Dark Elven magic is
vile and degrading, a force of darkness which is so
pure that it puts the cheap darkness of the night to
shame. To be initiated into the very first stage of its
arcane intricacies, a Dark Elf must prove himself or
herself worthy by some test; a second test will then
follow much later, and will herald the completion of
his or her learning. Most Dark Elves take the initial test
after half a century's study and worship, but the Storm
Child was just turning nine years old when he was
proposed for initiation, For the young Aéren, the test
was one of his own devising. He would go back to the
surface world, where he had not set foot since he was
found in the snow on that terrible winter's night
exactly nine years before, and start the first stage of his
revenge.

And so, ona squally winter's evening, a small, black-
robed shape skipped lightly from the hidden entrance
of the caves which lead down into Tiranduil Kelthas,
and disappeared into the shadows of the forest. He
did not know where he was going, nor what he was
going to do to prove his worthiness, but he knew that
the nameless beings which he had felt watching over
him for so long would protect him on this night.

Luck, if that is what it was, was with him that night,
for he came, very soon, to an area of thick, tall trees,
where the scent was strongest. His Dark Elven night-
vision picked out the shape of tree-houses, far above
the ground. The faint sound of laughter flosted down,
tobimon the sind, and heknet then that tise the
place where his revenge began, Quite by chance the
Youngetild id stumbled into themidaleo! the Wood
BI town of Caoranes, completely bypassing the
pateling guards

‘Summoning all th inner stength he could muster,
‘Atsonbegan a think offre, Smalltongues of wash,
great lowering ames, wood glowing with hest, the
ench ofburning fesh-Aéren thought tall And the
power began to form inside himyallthehateand anger
and Evlin him owed theough his mind, where it vas
Converted into thoughts of fre, ire, fie. The fest tee
aught, bursting aflame ina belliant Mach of light
‘hich blinded the smal ch Bt he went on con
Eentuating,leting the rea firefeed heflames coursing
through hismind. Asecond vee took, thena third and
fourth. Andsoon every tee, forasfaras Aéren could
See, was ablave, and from the tops of tees, igeres
leapt to thet deaths, Use clothes alight with the
Names of Aecens vil

“The entire uee-top town of Caranos was alight now,
with Wood Elves scurying everywhere in vain

tempts to organize the exiaguishing ofthe ie. But
Ttwas aiady foo ate tno Int for water and toa late
feven for magi, As they ran round In pani, several
Elves knocked into the litle human child eho stood,
wrapped in his oak, staring up atthe flames with
‘wide eyesanda happy smile on his fae, But they were
toobusytotake much notice of him then, forthe lives
‘Weve erashing down around thei ae,

Te was not unlit much, mach Inter, when the Elves

‘THE FACES OF EVIL AND CHAOS 101

‘ere counting the dead and asking ow this could
Ihave happened that the child wasremembered. And
they asked themselves who he was, this sweet faced
clild who had appeared out ofnovshere to watch thelr
families and fiends di, The Elves looked wound for
some lu, and they found sll ack cloak yng in
‘he ashes ofthe largest ee. It yas made of a strange
loth and it reeked ofa musty smell ast had boen
buried inthe earth fr a lng time, which made the
Elves fel nauseous. The Elf who red to peki up lel
uta yelp foritbumed hishand with he intense eld
‘ofpure vl, And then they knew thatitwass Datk Et
cloak, and that the mysterious human child was in
league with the Dark Elves af accursed iran
Kelthas.

‘The story of the child who eazed the Elf own spread
quickly tall pars of the Elf nation, and he was given
the name Malbordus, Child of Darkness, and his
Stature gre and geew inthe tling, But far beneath
the surface of Darkwrood Foret, young Aéren, oF
Matbordivs as even he would soon cll himself 085
selling down to stad the rudiment ofthe first stage
‘of Dark Elven magic, Since that salty explosion of
his powers, he has not sot fot inthe tide world

‘and his name hasbeen forgotten by ll but 3

But he must be approsching manhood s000, the ime
‘when he vil ave to fake his second test of ntti,
{oallow hie finish hls tudes ofthe forbidden lore
of Disk Elven magic And this Hane he wl not be
satisfied with burning dows a ew trees, ees te
Malbordus sets fot above ground, ll Allain wil
know of

102 TITAN — THE FIGHTING FANTASY WORLD

Shareella, the Snow Witch

In the far frozen north of Allansia, the [cefinger Moun-
tains loom over the ice-bound plains, their craggy
peaks pointing accusingly at the sky. In the mountains
live wild creatures such as Yeti and Toa-Suo, which
prey on the smaller animals of their icy habitat. But in
recent years the Icefinger Mountains have also been
home to evil inhumans - Orcs, Goblins, Ogres and
Trolls - who make sporadic raids on isolated hunting
settlements in search of slaves. These foul beings serve
the evil sorceress known as the Snow Witch.

This demonic harridan makes her home ‘n an exten-
sive network of carefully guarded caverns known as
the Crystal Caves. These fabulous caves were cut from
the ice of a glacier high up a mountainside many years
ago by the same degenerate creatures which serve her
still. What she is doing here, in this frozen land, is not
fully understood, but rumours say that she is
acclimatizing herself to the powers of ice magic, train-
ing herself until she is ready to unleash the cold and
bring a new Ice Age to Titan, at which point she will
take control.

Until fairly recently, no one knew where the Snow
Witch had come from - one moment the mountains
were quiet, the next she had arrived, with her army of
Orcs and Goblins, But thanks to the indomitable spirit
of Harlak Erlisson, an adventurer from Frostholm, we
know much more about her, and can even begin to
piece together the sorry life which led her to this point.
Harlak spent nine months as a slave in her ice-bound
caves, being forced to raid and kill human settlements
by a magical collar which was welded around his neck,
but which did not stop his mind observing and
remembering, everything he saw. The hardy warrlor
escaped after his collar was knocked off when he was
caught in an avalanche, which killed the other mem-
bers of his raiding party. He crossed the ice plains to
Allansia and freedom, and then to usto report what he
had seen and learnt.

The Snow Witch was once human, Asa young woman
in Zengis, where she was born and grew up, she was
known as Shareella, In that far city, women have
many important religious and social roles, while the
men become soldiers or traders. It seems they believe
that women are far more ‘spiritual’ creatures than the
more physical men. However, to reconcile this fact, a
sorceress had to wander the barren northern wildcr-
ness a3 a test of her survival skills and will-power.
Young Sharcella was trained as a sorceress, and for her
test was sent to the fringes of the Icefinger Mountains
in winter, where she would have to live — without the
benefit of fire or shelter or any ather comforts — for five
weeks.

At first Sharcella found the going very hard, for she
was used to the warmer climate of more southerly
Zengis, But by the end of the second week she was
beginning to become acclimatized to the conditions,
and started to explore her surroundings. Gradually
she wandered higher and higher into the Icefingers,
living off snow-deer she caught and killed with her
hare hands, but cooked with magical fire. Four weeks

into her test, Shareella was exploring, as usual, when
she came to a secluded ravine-cum-valley which she
had not seen before. She gazed down into it - and
stopped in her tracks! At the far end of the depression
was a gigantic statue of a Demon, apparently carved
out of solid ice.

But when she approached it, and Jaid her palm on its
Surprisingly warm surface, a voice spoke in her head -
the voice of the [ce Demon which rested inside the
statue. [t told her many things about Demons and
their works, and about the ‘perversions’ of Goodness
and the ‘blasphemies’ of Neutrality. And it showed
her a vision of the world covered in ice, and her as its
omnipotent ruler! Shareella was converted in an
instant, and pledged her soul to do everything she
could to attain that goal,

Under the tuition of the Jee Demon, she became a
necromancer, able to raise up zombies or skeletons
from the bodies of the dead to serve her. She was
provided with hordes of Orcs and Goblins, who wor-
ship the Demon, to build her the Crystal Caverns,
where she now resides, hidden within the mountain-
side by an illusory wall of ice. In their turn, the
inhuman races brought her slaves, whom she keeps in
order with special magical collars that deliver sharp
jolts of pain any time she wishes. Shareclla has
become twisted by the powers given to her by the
Demon, and now she is a Vampire, able to suck the
souls from other people's bodies. But all the time she is
studying the powers of the ice, and readying herself
for the day when the glaciers will creak and then
slowly set off to cover all of Titan.

‘THE FACES OF EVIL AND CHAOS 103

The Demonic Three

Years ago, an aged sorcerer had twee pupils, whom
the faugt ina secluded school of magi. Uke the
Grand Wizard ofthe Forest Yore, however, he was 3
servant of Evil and Chaos, and his three pupils were
being tained to be warlocks and necromancers, The
coven of this evil wizard, whose given namhe was
Volgera Darkstrm, was hidden among the grassy
wastes ofthe Ftlands, near one ofthe many ancient
‘eles of standing stones which ter the pains, There
the four of them studied all the arcane aes, from
sticking pins in voodoo dos and simple splls for
Sonn mil, oralsing the dead and commuringwith
Demons

‘Thethreeyoung apprentices wereksen students, and
they larltheirhorcendows craft quickly, thei ape
cit for evil surprising even the depraved old sorcerer
‘whotaught them. They would sipoffintheeverings,
Tongafter their teacher had retired to hs bed, an just
fer fun steak upon the camps of horee-nomads under
‘the cover of dark magi which would hide thelr senell
from the sensitive horses. Ther, the darkness, they
‘Would caeflly set magical taps, which would later
explode into flame, when from the safety of achampot
spiky bushes the thvee could watch the nomsde
desperately rush about, tying to beat out tele Aa
ingtents,

‘These three wore named Balthus, Zagor and Zhae-
radan,and thelr activites ere soon tobecome kav
across mucho Allin, When they eeached ihe ageof
seventeen, the tio decided they had had enough of
Jeaming, and enough of living out on the Flan,

‘They llled thee teacher by magl, Jet hie Ing in 3
pool of blood, and sneaked through Trltooth Pass
And into old Allansi, There, in the shadows of Dak

‘wood Forest, they std goodbye, wishing one another
{he luck ofthe Dak Lords in serving their aime nthe
years oome,

Balthus headed south, carefully avoiding the Foes of
Yore, The sweet scent of Goodness hung over forest,
making the young sorcerer fel sick, but it wae quichly
past He did not tum aside when he zach the
foothills ofthe Craggen Heights, but contined tek
ing Ino them, walking uinfl he sould not progress
“any higher. There on thetaremounainside, he sept,
but early thenext day he reached his goal the citadel
‘ult by his grandfather and now inhabited by is
father, both of whom were themselves practitioners of
dlarkmagie Evenashisfatherembraced him, welcot
lng him back, Blthus sipped a polsoaed dagger
between hisribs-and the Citadel of Chaos rashie Fe
new what head odo He would gather around him
servants of Chaos, Orcs and Goblins ~ and he would
make his own servants oo, building themoutof ther
‘eatuces to give him the etongest armies inthe and
He would show Zagor and Zharrdan how evil he
could be!

Zagor, meanvhil, headed north with Zharradan fora
‘while, skirting Daskwoed Forest, before the other
broke off and headed east ito the Moonstone Hill,
Zagortovelled for many days, until he came Insight

ofFiretop Mountain, apask head scenin his Demon
Sent dreams many atime, Here, he knew, his desing
lay. Atthat ime the legendary caverasndemeaththe
mouniain were occupied by Dwarfs, but thst soon
changed, 35 the evil Zagor marched i witha sttong
force of Ores and foul undead creatures Some ofthe
‘wars fe into the endless mazeike passages cd
were never caught, but many were biled, providing
yet more deathlss woops forthe necromancer,

‘Nov, many yer ater, Zagoeis lord and master over
Fietop Mountain, where he rales vera male collec:
fon of ev servants, guarding the fabulous treasures
he stole from the Dwas all those yenrs ago. At
‘ther end of setled Allis, the fou! Balthis Dire
rules ver the Black Tower, ghasly citadel which
perches atop Craggen Rock ikea angry finger point-
Jing accusingly atthe gods! Withia it Isbyrinthine
\warrens, mutant creatutes~ spawned by Balthus is
1s own iaboratoies trainin the ure of weapons and
magic alongside Black Elves and mony Ore and
Goblins. They ae prepasing fo war, for their satan
leader plans touse them toinvade the Vale of Willows
and the ancient ety of Salamon, bringing Chaos and
eat to that pleasant land aya tute to Dl's hell
spawned dls

But what of Zharadan? Well, iti Knovw that he
headed east ito the Moonstone Hl al hose years
ago, Wecan trace his path very well bythe lite cues
Tn left behind hn along the way ~ a buraing Elven
village here, a massacred Woodling setdement there
fad s0.0n. When he came tothe heat ofthe Mn
Sone, however, he seemed to disappear without
leaving any trace. To say he s dangerous isan under
sMatement-ifhe is alive. tis ust coneelvable that he
hassuccumbedto the dangersofthewerldletushope

104 TITAN ~ THE FIGHTING FANTASY WORLD

Sukumvit and Carnuss

They say there is no bond so strong, in this world as
brotherly Jove, but that clearly does not always apply.
Once, many years ago, there were two young
brothers, the sons of Baron Arkat Charavask, who at
that time was ruler of the prosperous northern trading
city of Fang. Fang was, and is, the capital of the small
but rich province of Chiang Mai, which lies just north
of old Allansia. The border with that land is the River
Kok, a fast-flowing torrent which brings barges and
merchant ships from as far away as the city of Zengis
in Kaypong to the north, and from the Western Ocean
and beyond the other way, Baron Arkat was exceed-
ingly rich, and his two fine sons wanted for nothing,

But Carnuss was very jealous of his brother; he felt
that Sukumvit was getting far too much of his father’s
attention. Sukumvit, as eldest son, could expect to
inherit the rule of Chiang Mai on the death of Baron
Charavask, so much of his time was spent in
accompanying his father to learn the task of rulership:
they were together on state visils, at the court hearing
complaints from citizens, hawking or hunting, and on
the training-flelds where Sukumvit was learning the
use of sword and lance.

While this was going on, Carnuss Charavask was
being taught a great many very tedious things by the
court sorcerer, Zaragan the Wrinkled, who wasa very
learned, but also very boring teacher. From the room
at the top of the ramshackle tower where the wizard
lived, Carnuss could see his brother jousting or hunt-
ing with the dogs ~ doing all the things that Carmuss
longed to do, But no, he was not destined for such
greatness. In his mind, even at that young age, he
nurtured a hatred that would Last for many decades.

When his elder brother was twenty-one, Baron Arkat
died, and Sukumvit was immediately proclaimed
Baron of Fang. Carmuss, only a year younger, felt
angry that his brother should acquire so much wealth
and power just like that, and he plotted to get even. He
began mixing with thieves and assassins in the seedy
bars in the slum areas of Fang, getting in with a
dangerous crowd. He would slump there, every even-
ing, muttering how much he would like to kill his
brother. Eventually a few of his ‘fmends’ decided to
take him up on the offer — but it would cost him 1,400
Gold Pieces, as the victim would be hard to get close
to.

Carnuss, in his youthful stupidity, agreed — but the
‘assassins’ went straight to Sukumvit and told him of
the plot, for they were members of the palace guard
whom the Baron had hired to watch over his foolish
brother. Carnuss’s plottings were publicly exposed,
and the young nobleman fled the city in disgrace. He
travelled far and wide, but found that as soon as he
mentioned his name people would laugh at him,
licading further and further south, he eventually
went to live on Blood Island off the desert coast of
southern Allansia, where he built a massive castle,

As the years in exile and isolation went by, Lord
Carnuss’s hatred for his brother festered, until it

turned him quite insane. Sukumvit, meanwhile, was
enjoying a long and peaceful reign over Fang, where
he was quite well liked by his citizens, despite a
tendency towards violence. As a sadistic private
hobby, he built Deathtrap Dungeon, a massive under-
ground complex full of deadly creatures and fiendish
traps. He offered a prize of 10,000 Gold Pieces to the
warnor who could pass through it. When one finally
did, Sukumvit’s reputation suffered greatly, but he
was undeterred, and immediately made plans for a
few changes, When he had finally redesigned and
rebuilt his Trial of Champions’, as he called it, he sent
messengers to every town and village for tens of
leagues around, declaring that no one would ever pass
through it alive!

Camuss, brooding in his distant castle, suddenly saw
a way of getting even with Sukumvit after all these
years. He would find a champion, a warrior and
adventurer tough enough to survive all that the
Baron's feeble dungeon could throw at him, To this
end, he sect up the Arena of Death on Blood Island,
which is still in use. He uses slaves obtained for him by
the notorious pirate and mass murderer Captain
‘Skully’ Bartella; these slaves are often just normal
people who have been ‘persuaded’ to join the good
captain and his scurvy crew ona little sea-cruise, Once
they are on the island, Carnuss subjects his trainees to
mortal combat in the arena. He is trying to whittle
them down to just a single warrior, who will represent
him and win the Trial of Champions, but his tests are
far too strenuous, When one does survive, however,
he plans to send him or her north, to revenge himself
on his sadistic brother.

The Archmage

“Theres fort much that we do not know about the
‘Archmage of Mampang, for too much. We have no
record of where he was bor, of what national hes,
norofisho his parents were~ fhe had any thats. is
not known who teamed him in the rudiments of dare
-nagle, nor where he served his apprenticeship.

‘Whatever his origins, however, llknow of him now,
for he is toed and aster of the foul cide! of
Mampang, where tins his ev armiesof inhuman
‘watts, and fom where he theeatnsto cnslaveallot
Kakhabed under his rule. When he came to High
Xamen, he was already in his late twenties, and the
‘while aces was uninhabited Bul he gathered around
him all manner of Goblins, Ors, ros and many
‘ther ninteigent servants of Evil and Chaos, and
bgan fo bulld what was eventually going to be
Mampang, the Citadel ofthe Archinage

A fist the makeshift camps of the builders were
‘subject to attacks from the Bid Men ofthe area, the
Schunn, who qulle understandably ld not want aay
fou sorcerer building his big block citadel in ther
Jands. The Archmage made a pretence of wanting to
smeet and discuss the mater, but when the leaders of
the Bid Men arrived toconfer wth te wizard he ad
them lad Fe then negotiated with other Bcd Men,
‘he traditional enemies of the protesting faction, offer
ing to keep them supplied vith gold and jewels in
sichange fr thelr help in apg the Sein away,

Eventualy, after many years af constuction, the
fortress of Mampang was Bnished, and the Archmage
and his ev servants took up residence. Fr perhaps
thity oe forty yes the Archinage continued to stay
the arcane arts, summoning Demons and making
pacts with them in reuen for greater and greater
Dover, prowing ever mare proficent inthe practice of
diack mate

“THE FACES OF EVIL AND CHAOS 10

‘THE SEVEN SERPENTS

‘Ataboutthistime, tenor fifteen years ago, legend says
that the Archmage fought a notable bite. All the
hl the sorcerer was studying his Black sorcery, Ns
foul servants were raiding further and further tick,
bringing torror to many isolated settlements in Dad
Bakand slong the banks of eae-by Lake Ils. Butt
wap while they ware exploring caves overlooking
‘Avanti Wood, on the fr side of Xamen, that Hey
found the Hye,

‘The tani bate lasted tro full days, duting whieh
‘wild magic flashed around the mountain peaks 9nd
the Atchmage eeceived, apart from severe burns, 2
deep sound, whose scar apparently suns froma his
‘neck tohisrightknce. But the Hydra wa aly dead

‘So impressed was the Archoage by the stength and
prowess ofthis formidable foe that he took its even
heads and exst powerful and intcaespels on them.
Then, summoning all his neromanti sil he rest
reated them as seven winged serpent! As ace joke
pethaps,or possibly because heal believed in them
$thatpoiny heassignedeach snake tooneofthe gods
ofthe Old Werld. Gantanka's power was given tthe
‘Sun Serpent; Lunata’s to the Moon Serpent, Four
mote serpents were aligned respectively with eat,
ae ie and wate, and thelastwas given the power of
{Cheonada, the abscure Kakhabadian god of tne, The
Seven Serpents serve him sil, is sald, Bringing
Jnformaton to hla (om all ver the festering ants,

‘And nov rumours say he has the wondzous Crown of
‘kings, stolen by Bed Men fom the king of Anand!
‘Weean onlyshaddertothinkof the powerhecan nots
‘wield, Hewllnetstopat Kakhubad, oucanbesure of
‘ha, no mater how une isthe whole! the OS
‘World may mat he safe from his plans of so

fone he has tasted the vt fu a

106 TITAN — THE FIGHTING FANTASY WORLD

Lord Azzur, the Tyrant of
Blacksand

Last, but definitely not least, we come full circle to
where we started our journeying across Titan, in Port
Blacksand, the heart of settled Allansia, the true ‘land
of adventure’. What a city! More evil even than Kharé,
the Cityport of Traps from the wild lands of Kakhabad,
it sits at the heart of Allansia like an open sore on a
dying Ieper! Even those who dwell there call it ‘the
City of Thieves’, for it attracts every pirate, brigand,
assassin, thief and evil-doer for hundreds of leagues
around. Danger Jurks in every corner of every street,
as the strong prey on the weak, and the weak prey on
one another, Over Blacksand, however, rules the
biggest thief of them all, the mysterious Lord Azzur.

Azzur has ruled over Port Blacksand for at least thirty
years now. He came to power after he wrested control
from its previous master, one Baron Valentis, in a
subtle take-over of the city which involved poisoning
the head of the militla, beheading Valentis's brother,
blockading the harbour with pirate ships, and hanging
the baron from the highest tower of his palace! As to
who Azzur is, however, there are many theories — you
will find several in every tavern of an evening — but
few know the truth. Except for a few rare occasions,
Azzur has kept himself out of view ever since he took
over the city, and always works through the black-clad
Azzur Guard,

The pirate connection worries many cilizens, and
some say Azzur is the brother of the famous brigand,
Garius of Halak; others even say he is Garius of Halak!
The fact that his crest shows a boat on a wave-topped
sea flanked by the sun and moon, has added great
weight to such theorles. Extensive research by the
great historian, scholar and traveller, Zelakar of
Chalannabrad, however, has finally revealed Lord
Azzur's true background.

AZZUR’S PAST LIFE

Lord Varek Azzur was born of noble parents in the city
of Arion, far, far away from Port Blacksand in the
north-eastern corner of Khul. Arion, like all cities, is
inhabited by both the good and the bad, the Lawful
and the Chaotic, To the young Azzur, the darker side
of existence always held the most attraction. He was
fascinated by the bizarrely clad worshippers of strange
deities such as Kukulak, the Khulian god of storms,
whose devotees always went about completely
swathed in thick black robes, When he reached the age
of sixteen, he sneaked into Kukulak’s temple during a
mass, and Jearnt why his worshippers were always
dressed so: as part of their initiation, burning brands
were applied to thelr faces and bodies, causing great
weals and scars. If the scars formed themselves into
Kukulak's runes, the acolyte was accepted; if not, he
was taken from the temple and disposed of. Azzur
was caught that night, lurking in the shadows at the
rear of the temple, after accidentally kicking over a
large brass candle-stand, He was given a simple choice
- either to take the test of the flame, or to die there and
then,

wi !
y)
mui

2 2 3
real de, )

S59);
ae He | |
ean ls

.

!
( ; 7)
/

—

]
al
1g

AIK

~~

~

Ss

SSN

~~

WS

~

The burns were made, and they formed themselves
into Kukulsk's nines before the disappointed eyes of
the high priest. Azzur was suddenly an initiate of
Kukulak, the god of storms! Fearing what his parents
would say when they saw his face, Azzur fled Arion
on board a merchant's ship bound for Corda. On the
way, however, the ship was raided by pirates operat-
ing out of the Rockwall Islands, who enslaved the

fitter members of the ship's company and threw the
rest to the sharks. The pirate captain (his name and
the name of his ship are not Known) was intrigued by
the black-wrapped boy with the scarred face, and he
allowed him to become his cabin boy,

Here Azzur’s trail went cold on Zelakar for some time,
apart froma number of unconfirmed reports of a brave
pirate warrior with a heavily scarred face who served
with a captain operating out of the Arrowhead
Islands. Nine years after he fled Arion, Varek Azzur
tumed up in Mertuk, the small port on the extreme
south-eastern tip of Allansia, in charge of a pirate
galley called The Face of Chios. He sailed into the
harbour at Merluk flying the skull and crossbones,
boarded three ships just making ready to set sail, and
quite openly emptied their holds of several thousand
Gold Pieces’ worth of goods before sailing away again!
Azzur had obviously learnt how to make an entrance
in his years as 4 pirate!

Azzur spent the next six years raiding, ships along the
entire southern coastline, from the Strait of Knives to
Kaynlesh-Ma, until he had acquired a fleet of galleys,
several hundred fanatically loyal men, and enough
money to buy most of the southlands! Instead,
however, his attentions turned towards Port Slack-
sand, which at the time was a small, shabby
principality run by the ageing Baron Valentis. Gather-
ing together his forces, he quickly took control of the
city, where he has reled ever since.

PORT BLACKSAND UNDER AZZUR

Azzur's rule has been a harsh one, The city has
become a haven for all kinds of evil-doers, and it is no
longer safe for an ordinary man to walk the streets —
not that most are actually able to, for Azzur has
imposed a stringent system of passes. This is enforced
by his black-clad town militia, which includes Trolls
and Ogres among its number. The passes are expen-
sive, and vary according to what a person wishes to
do: one is needed to enter the city, another to leave
again; one is required to drink in certain taverns,
another tu enter a temple, and yet another to trade. It
gets quite impossible on the days when the militiamen
are sticking to their master’s rules and are checking
everyone!

Of Lord Azzur the citizens have secn little, and only
two people in l’ort Blacksand have ever seen his face.
One is his persona] holy man, who brings the wisdom
of Kukulak to Azzur once a month; the other is an
incredibly over-confident thief, who now rests in
pieces in various parts of the city after creeping into
Azzur's private chambers one night! Azzur drives
everywhere in an ornate golden coach, his face hidden
behind darkened windows. If he has to appear in
public, which he does rarely, he always dresses in
black robes which swathe him completely. The gates
of his ugly, claborate palace are never open to visitors.

The city is, as mentioned right at the start of this
volume, built on the ruins of the dockland area of @
much older city called Carsepolis. Some of the deeper
cellars and sewers lead down into the ruins, which still
lic beneath the city, and many tales are told of the

THE FACES OF EVIL AND CHAOS 107

strange beings which haunt them. Every so often
people disappear from their beds in the night, leaving
only a few scraps of clothing and a smell like a
thousand rats. When people hear of another disap-
pearance, they just make the appropriate signs to their
gods and point to the ground beneath their feet with a
gulp! Occasionally, young adventurers full of bravado
{or ale) boast of making a special journey into the
ancient ruins to search for treasure, but those who try
it rarely retum, and none who do speak of what they
saw there.

Since Port Blacksand is at the entrance to the Catfish
River, right at the centre of settled Allansia, a lot of
merchant traffic passes by it, generally in groups
escorted by heavily armed galleys in case of piracy. Far
fewer dock now than in the past, however, for they
know that their wares will be stolen from their holds in
the night, or their crews will be replaced by others who
will mutiny and take their ships half-way through the
voyage. Port Blacksand has an infamous reputation
among honest seafarers the length and breadth of the
coast, and even sume pirates fear to enter it at certain
times of the year.

It is @ great place for hopeful adventurers, however,
who seem to enjoy mixing with the rough and the
violent. Many pass through in search of a boat and
Passage up or down the coast — or even out across the
Western Ocean to distant Kakhabad or Analand, The
taverns of Port Blacksand are always packed with
warriors and would-be magicians, telling tales of their
heroics or just sitting listening to those of otheradven:
turers, But you need your wits about you if you are to
survive even a single night in the City of Thieves. [tts
nat a place for an inexperienced country boy with
designs on being an adventurer. We say again -
beware Blacksand!

FISHER

mao) ‘ > a » Of a .
Gy, {k sTRE ‘t..
elo

NECUTIONER'S ,@ 4

SQUARE

oe,

Arena ik
T= \ _——r" r CO
— xD ES) ea < | —
- ewe © SS tte eat

PPPS SDS
| ee -”
; —

we

a me =.

GALLOWS

=
¥

D>) &

; ©
, | S&S
a (uae

ak, 5

} TEMPLE

TAVERN
WELL

110 TITAN - THE FIGHTING FANTASY WORLD

THE UNDERWATER KINGDOMS

For hundreds, maybe thousands of years, tales have
been told of the peoples who dwell ‘under the sea’,
The most persistent spreaders of such tales have been
snilors, of course, who are renowned in all lands for
being the biggest liars and exaggerators around! Puta
salty old seaman in a run-down dockside tavern, stick
a mug of rum in his tattooed hand lo go with the
dozens he has already quaffed, and he will give you a
tale of such monumental catastrophe you will never
contemplate going aboard a ship again! Such tales
usually revolve around either gigantic sca-monsters
which threaten to smash a galley into smithereens
with one flick of a tail which has the dimensions of a
city wall, or perilously beautiful Mermaids who perch
seductively on stray rocks or the backs of passing
dolphins and call love-struck look-outs to their doom.

Like most tales, those told of the undenvater world are
a mixture uf half-truths and plain exaggeration. There
are sea-monsters, and there are Mermaids, though
they may not fit the desctiptions you have heard.
Morcover, they are far from being the only occupants
of the world beneath the waves. Several races live in
the oceans of ‘litan, though how they got there is
anyone's guess. Some tell il like this. ..

The Children of Hydana

During the age of the carth before Time had been
released by Death, and when the shape of the land
was very different to what it is today, Hydana (the
name the people of the Old World give the god of the
waters) lived alone in a great palace at the bottom of
the ocean. He was utterly captivated by the beauty of
the sea and all the creatures which dwell in it, and
spent his time swimming in the depths observing all
its wonders, But in time he became bored, for few of
his brothers and sisters visited him (being ton busy, for
the most part, in fighting one another) and he wished
for more sophisticated pleasures than merely playing,
with a few fish. Hydana had heard that his fellow gods
had started to create their own beings, strange
creatures which walked on two legs and had intelli-
gence of sorts, and soon he saw some ‘men’, when
they took their first tentative steps into the waters of
their planet to swim and fish.

Hydana saw his chance. He captured a boat full of
‘men’ and ‘women’, and drew them beneath the
waves to observe them; but he was dismayed to find
that they wriggled a while, but then lay still, and
would not move again, no matter how hard he shook
them. He tried this several times, before it dawned on
him that the bubbles the things released when held
underwater were what they breathed to keep alive on
the land. Next time he captured a boat, therefore, he
changed the lungs of his ‘guests’ into gills, so that they
could join him in his wondrous world beneath the sea.
At first, of course, the humans were terified, but

Hydana continued adding to their numbers, and in
time they began to enjoy their new life under the
waves with Hydana, and built their own towns and
cities, and farrned seaweed and other crops. The god
continued adding to his stock of ‘little people’, and
soon had brought other beings such as Elves, Trolls
and Giants to join the humans.

Hydana, however, was caught up in the First Battle
against Death and his cohorts. During the battle he
was so sorely injured that he retired to the deepest part
of the oceans, from where he rarely emerges now,
except at times of great disaster, or when called upon
by his fellow gods for some special task — like the
drowning of Atlantis, which we will come to in a
moment,

The underwater races prospered in the occans, and
lived in small groups dotted around the ocean beds.
They made their homes in caves at first, but soon
began to build from stane, learning the techniques by
examining drowned villages near the coast which had

a
Ls

-

ie

been submerged by the sea’s relentless advance. Their
appearance gradually changed, and they turned into
the Merfolk — green-skinned and scaly, with a fish-like
tail instead of legs, They made friends with dolphins,
seals and the other underwater mammals, and would
often hunt and play with them; and each species
protected the others from the attentions of sharks and
sea-serpents. Life was peaceful under the waves, with
few of the troubles which were coming, to a head for
their land-based relations.

THE DIVIDING OF THE RACES

But eventually, when the Forces of Evil began fighting
for dominance of the land, their brothers under the
waves were called upon to help. Although they had
lived for many centuries in perfect peace and harmony
with Mermen and Sea Elves, the Sea Trolls moved
away and set up their own colonies, shunning the
company of the beings which had once been their
friends, Because the Mermen and Sea Elves dwelt in
the warm, clear waters around the middle of Titan, the
rebel races were forced to take the cold and silty
northem waters, Petty disputes started over
boundaries and who ‘owned’ particular stretches of
the sca — something which had never happened in the
underwater world before, though it would be familiar
to any land-dweller. They led, inexorably, to war.

At the time of the first conflicts, the Merfolk were
divided into four distinct groups, each based in and
around a large underwater city ina different part of the
ocean. They had no leaders as such, but were watched
over by ruling councils of between three and twenty
Mermen and Mermaids. And they were totally
unprepared for war.

The first engagements came near the smallest of the
four cities, called Buwalra In the strange tongue of the
underwater people, A tribe of Sea Trolls which dwelt
north of the city had gradually been encroaching on
Merfolk lands, needlessly killing dolphins and setting
sharks loose near by, and then destroying crops while
the local inhabitants were distracted. Despite their
peaceful nature, the Merfolk could take no more, and
senta delegation to the chicf of the Sea Trolls, who was
known as Krulliagh Stormtooth. The delegation went
in peace, escorted by more dolphins and with Sea Elf
observers. Before they could arrive at the craggy
plateau-side where the Trolls had their settlement,
they were ambushed by a combined force of Trolls,
Giants and sharks, and as onc they were slaughtered
ina frenzy of blood-letting. Thelr bodies floated slowly
back into Buwalra on the current, and messengers
were sent to the other three cities, informing them that
the citizens of Buwalra were about to declare war on
Stormtooth’s forces, and asking for aid in their fight.

A strong force of warriors was dispatched and swam
with all speed for the city, but several leagues outside
Buwalra they met the first Merfolk bodies drifting in
the water. By the time they reached the centre of the
city, they realized that a terrible massacre had taken
place. The central square itself was a mass of writhing
sharks, frenziedly chewing away at a large pile of
bleeding bodies, the entire population of the city had

THE UNDERWATER KINGDOMS 111

been slaughtered - apparently without putting up any
resistance, for there were few Troll corpses around.

The Massacre of Buwalra, as it has been called to this
day, was only the first engagement in the unceasing
conflict between Merfolk and Sea Trolls. The Merfolk
have become very bitter and battle-hardened, for they
are always on the alert for the bulky silhoucttes drift-
ing over their reefs, which indicate the presence of
another Troll] raiding party. The conflict is intense in
some parts of the ocean, while an uneasy peace exists
in others, but all Merfolk are always on their guard
against the Trolls, whom they now call the Sharadrin,
or ‘Deep Ones’, Buwatra itself has been left empty, asa
shrine to thase who were so cruelly slaughtered there
all those centuries ago, Silt and debris is cleared from
its streets and buildings every so often, but the only
creatures who live there now are fish.

Merfolk have little to do with land-dwellers, for there
are weightier matters which concern them morc, Tales
are sometimes told of sailors who have been saved
from shipwrecks by dolphin-riding ‘fish-men’, but
such occurrences are very rare. Mermaids still lure
men into the water, to take them as lovers for a short
while, but no one can ever be sure how many men
have been lost in this way. Adventurers and curious
sages who have perfected magical gills or spells for
breathing undenwvater are greeted cordially, but with
some reserve, and their stays have been short.

MERFOLK RAIDING PARTY

This is a typical Merman war-band in the formation
they take while out patrolling for sharks or raiding
Sea Trolls. At the front, scouts swim with the
fastest dolphins and seals, looking out for likely
threats. Behind them come the forward guards,
riding dolphins or sea-horses, followed by the main
band of warriors again riding sea-horses or swim-
ming. The rear is taken up by several more dol-
phins and seals. All the Mermen are armed with

spears and nets,

uP ha St
a
. Pehle
tet

a tage”
ao

1. = MERMAN f@= DOLPHIN

r. = MOUNTED MEKMAN ys = SEA*ILORSE

112 TITAN — THE FIGHTING FANTASY WORLD

THE OTHER RACES

Sea Elves are much fewer in number than Merfolk or
Deep Ones, and they keep themselves very much to
themselves as far as they can. Like thelr land-bound
cousins they can live for many, many centuries, and
also like them they have taken on the role of
gardeners. They have had few troubles with Sea
Trolls, for the latter have Icarnt to leave them well
alone, after a few disastrous attempts at attacking
Elven settlements at the start of the conflict.

~e

The Elves have adapted so well to their underwater
environment that they are more like fish than human-
olds, and are able to swim at great speeds and with
great dexterity. It is even thought that they have
become colour-changers like chameleons, and can
blend in with whatever surface they are passing over
{sand, say, or rocks}, which allows them to sneak up
on prey without being seen. Mermen only use spears,
knives and nets, but Sea Elves have perfected the use
of small crossbows, which fire sleek darts carved frarn
bone at quite a speed through the water, They have
also learnt how to use paralysing poisons taken from
scorpion fish, which they smear on their darts and
Spear-tips.

Sea Elves make their homes in small, well-hidden
settlements, camouflaged by forests of kelp and weed
and protected by giant spider-crabs and octopi which
are enough to warn off must creatures, They are
governed by their priests, rather than by chieftains or
kings, and their magic is powerful and totally connec:
ted with the lore of the sea, Unlike Merfolk, they keep
in close contact with their land-based relations, and
attend the Elven Councils once a century, residing in
large tanks in the council chamber for the duration of
the council!

Sea Giants are much like other giants, being massive,
slow-moving and solitary beings, They tend to dwell
in large caves or crude stone buildings, living alone or,
sometimes, with a few pet fish or some other sea
creatures such as squid and octopi, They are slow-
witted, gentle creatures, who rarely realize how much
damage they can do. They are friendly towards Sea
Elves, but enjuy the company of Mermen more, for
they despise Sea Trolls for the damage they cause, and
occasionally help in raids against them, Mermen get
very annoyed with Sea Giants, for they tend to go
stomping over their prize crops by mistake, but they
are always grateful for their help during their constant
skirmishes with the scaly green Trolls.

Atlantis, the Sunken City

Such is the general situation beneath the waters of this
world’s oceans, but what of Auants, that infamous
city of legend? Ever since people have been telling
tales, there have been legends about the city which
was deliberately drowned by the gods, and the stories
are not restricled to coastal regions — even the primi-
tive peoples of the Scythera Desert and the Desert of
Skulls have tales of ‘a city over running land [water]
buricd by the gods’, The story of Atlantis and its
cataclysmic destruction has passed around the whole
world,

Once there was a large island in the centre of what is
now called the Western Ocean. In those days, this
stretch of water was much larger, for the three main
landmasses we know today were joined where the
Ocean of Serpents and the Ocean of Tempests now
flow. The gods had departed from the Earthly Plane by
this time, but the races of man had started their rise
towards civilization, The island was known as Atlan-
tis, after Atlan, the messenger of the gods, and it was
the greatest centre for wisdom on the whole of Titan,
In its capital, Atlantis City, the wisest scholars of the
day would gather to discuss deep philosophical ques-
tions about the nature of life.

Atlantis was very rich, for in the mountains which
made up perhaps half its area the Atlanteans had
found gold in abundant and secmingly inexhaustible
supply, With this gold, the people of Atlantis bought
the finest goods the world could offer and lived In
extreme luxury in Atlantis City, which was without
doubt the most beautiful metropolis ever to have
graced the surface of Titan. The wealth of the Allan-
teans attracted the attentions of many poorer nations,
and invasions were attempted ata rate of perhaps two

vr

Pico, A ’ \ , ‘ mf %%
oR al

or three a decade. But with their riches the Atlanteans
could easily afford the best mercenaries, and the
invading nations were quickly repulsed, their forces
sent fleeing and broken back to their home ports.

So Adlantis thrived, growing ever richer and ever
stronger. It quickly became the centre for trade and
learning for all the western lands, But all good things
come to an end sooner or later ~ and Adantis’s doom
was set when its greatest king, Faramos XXIL, died
after reigning for cighty-one years without leaving a
son, A search was started, a search which lasted for
four years, until the 16-year-old son of a second cousin
from the small kingdom of Kelios (now part of the [sles
of the Dawn) was found, and declared king of Adan-
tis, taking the name Faramos XXII in memory of
his noble predecessor,

The new king was very young and inexperienced, but
according to Atlantean law he was granted absolute
power over the entire land — the richest and most
powerful land on Titan! The power went to Faramos’s
head surprisingly quickly, and within four months he
had launched an invasion against the last nation to
threaten Atlantis, a large merchant-governed
democracy called Taralak. This soon fell, and the
victorious mercenary armies swept on into the lands
beyond, which fell almost as rapidly. Within four
months the armies of Faramos had carved a massive
swath across the whole of the centre of the continent,
and were busy putting most of the northlands to the

THE UNDERWATER KINGDOMS 113

torch! Deeply impressed by this new method of
proving Atlantean superiority, the whole country
united behind Faramos, and Atlantis geared up for the
eventual take-over of the whole world!

The gods could not stand back and watch any longer,
especially as it was (nightly) suspected by this time that
the boy Faramos was in fact the infernal Demon Prince
Myurr in disguise. During the most spectacular thun-
derstorm this world has ever seen, Hydana the god of
the waters rose from his secret domain at the bottom of
the ocean, and blasted Atlantis with a monumental
tidal wave. At the same time, Throff, goddess of the
earth, caused Atlan’s Beacon to erupt, and the nation
was destroyed amid raging torrents of lava and water,
before sinking to the bottom of the ocean (though not
before Myurr had made his escape back to the
Demonic Planes, unfortunately). The angry sea car-
ried the wrath of the gods to the mainland as well; the
land was swamped, and great channels were gouged,
which tumed it into three separate islands. These
gradually drifted apart, creating the three continents
which we know today.

As for Atlantis, it rests there still, at the bottom of the
Western Ocean, home to Merfolk and Sea Trolls who
war continuously for the prestige of dwelling there. [ts
treasures have never been recovered, but every so
often a few strange Gold Picces get hauled up in
fishermen’s nets, reminding us all of the city which
sank beneath the sea, and of the power of our gods!

>

un

, [Ca

114 TITAN - THE FIGHTING FANTASY WORLD

THE TITAN CALENDAR

In the so-called civilized countries, which are
stretched out along the narrow coastal strips as if
trapped between the impassable ocean and the hostile
interior, most people make a living from the land.
Their entire lives revolve around the seasons of the
year, for thus the farmers know when fo plant their
crops to reap the most fruit. In the small towns too, the
citizens live strictly by the calendar, whether they are
waiting for the regular visits of the travelling mer-
chants, trying to remember when each type of fish can
be found off the coast, or observing the feast-days of
their gods. In any land visited by the caravans of the
mercharils, you will find that they reckon the passing
of time in much the same way as anywhere else, butin
wilder lands you may discover entirely different
systems. Wherever you travel, however, you must
respect the culture of the people, and try not to give
offence - or you will soon find that their smiling
hospitality hides glinting daggers grasped tightly
behind their backs!

Reckoning the Years

During the Time of Naming, when everything was
given the title it would carry until the end of time, the
years were allotted names in honour of the greatest of
the beasts that walked the surface of Titan. The years
still pass in twenty-year cycles in honour of the
creatures whose names they bear. The cycle is as
follows:

1. A The Year of the Dragon
2, gS The Year of the Lion
3. 8 The Year of the Snake
4. Sg? The Year of the Ox
5. +» The Year of the Tiger
6. ww The Year of the Goat
7. = The Year of the Mouse
3. sn The Year of the Deer
9%. all The Year of the Bat
10, gf The Year of the Wolf
ll, Cs The Year of the Eagle
12. +» The Year of the Dog
13. ae The Year of the Spider
14, a The Year of the Rabbit

15. v The Year of the Fox

16, Fs The Year of the Crocodile
17. & The Year of the Owl

18. @f = The Year of the Cat

19. iY The Year of the Shark

20. we The Year of the Horse

Some astrologers in Allansia and elsewhere believe
that people bom in a particular animal's year take on
the characteristics of that animal. People burn under
the sign of the Owl, for example, arc said to be wise
and noble, but with a hidden savagery; those born in
the Year of the Deer are said to grow up shy and
nervous, always fleeing from the least danger,
Whether or not it is trac, many people give great
honour to the animal of their birth-ycar on their
twenticth birthdays, when they come of age and
become recognized adults. |

Each passing of the twenty-year cycle is called a
‘Turn’, so an old man may talk of being born in the
Year of the Spider, three Tums ago. Of course, as you
already know, the more civilized cultures also talk in
terms of real dates, according to the system
standardized by the scholars of the various seats of
learning of the known world after the War of the
Wizards, and instituted the After Chaos reckoning, of
which we are now in the 284th year, the Year of the
Fox. Thus, if he were a little more educated, and were
proficient enough at the generally unknown discipline
of mathematics, our elderly gentleman may tell us that
he was born in 222 4¢, and that he is a vencrable sixty-
two years old,

In other lands, they use very different systems for
reckoning the years {though in some lands, such as
Frostholm in the frozen north-east of Allansia, the
people have no calendar at all, for they neither know
nor care about thelr birth-dates or the time of the
year!). Many people simply date their lives after note-
worthy events, such as ‘four years after the Battle for
Vymorna Pass’ or ‘seventeen years after Hurlinn
beheaded King Shakash of Kaynlesh-Ma’. The
calendar of the semi-human nomads of the Baddu-Bak
Plains in Kakhabad is based on years being a certain
number ‘Away’ from the present; in other words, last
year Is One Away, and our old man was born in Sixty-
two Away. The people of Hachitnan in remote Khul
reckon years by a cycle of eight named years (the Tree,
the Fish, the Stone, the Sun, the First Moon, the
Second Moon, the Sword and the Arrow) and also by
the year of the reign of their ruler, Thus our old man
might tell us that he was born in the Year of the Fish in
the fourth year of Shogun Aykira (the grandfather,
incidentally, of the current Shogun, Kihei Hasekawa).

THE TITAN CALENDAR 115

Measuring the Months

Pacing Out the Days

Again, in different parts of the world there are differ-
ing names and reckonings for the months of any given
year, but in most civilized regions each year is divided
into twelve months, Within cach month, the days are
counted out, so that in Allansia, for example, a day
might be Scaday, 8th day of Dark. However, there are
two separate reckonings for the days within such
months.

The Allansian Reckoning. This system makes the
months all different lengths, called by the following
names:

Freeze (31 days)
Dark (28 days)
Unlocking (31 days)
Sowing (30 days)
Winds (31 days)
Warming (30 days)
Fire (31 days)
Watching (31 days)
Reaping (30 days)
10, Hiding (31 days)
ll. Close (30 days)

12. Locking (28 days)

CSV ee PS

The days are grouped into weeks, cach consisting of
seven days, Carcful study, however, will show that
this adds up to three days less than a normal 365-day
year. After Locking, the Allansian calendar adds three
uncounted days for the celebration of New Year.
Children born during this celebration time are con-
sidered very well blessed, and great things are expec-
ted of them. During this time, the cold stillness of the
winter is broken by 72 hours of riotous celebration (see
below for more on New Year and other special days).

The Khulian Reckoning. For as long as people have
reckoned days and months, the countries of the
mysterious continent have had twelve months, each
exactly 30 days in length, and each made up of five
weeks of six days apiece. The months are named as
follows:

Corn Ripening
Man’‘s Harvesting
Forests Golden
10. Nature’s Curling
ll. Sun‘s Hiding

12. Land's Sleeping

Al the end of the year, after the month of Land‘s
Sleeping, the peoples of all the countries of civilized
Khul mark New Year with not three but fire days of
merry-making, though it must be said that in many
parts of the continent the celebrations are more
sombre, as the people give thanks to their various
gods and pray for a prosperous year to come,

1. Snow’s Cloak

2. Skies in Darkness
3, Land’s Awakening
4. Heaven's Weeping
5. Birds Chatter

6, Days Lengthen

7.

8.

9.

in Allansia {and in the Old World) cach week has
seven days, while in the distant continent of Khul the
people measure a week in six days. The days each
have these names:

Day of the week Allansian Khulian
First Stormsday Rageday
Second Moonsday Freezeday
Third Fireday Fearday
Fourth Earthday Lifeday
Fifth Windsday Wildday
Sixth Seaday Spiritday
Seventh Highday —

On Highday in many civilized parts of Allansia and in
some of the principalities in the western continent,
and on Spiritday in Khul, most work stops and those
of religious persuasion attend the temples and chapels
to worship their various gods for much of the day,
spending the rest relaxing in comfort. As with the
various years, astrologers insist that the day of week
determines the character of a child from its birth, A
baby born on Earthday, they say, will be good with his
or her hands, and destined to be a craftsman or a
farmer, but one born on Moonsday will be a scholar or
priest, and will follow the path of learning and
enlightenment. (Incidentally, it is also believed that
most twins are born on Moonsday, and surprisingly
this appears to be truce, at least in Allansia.) It is very
definitely true that different types of magic work
better on the days associated with them than on the
days of their opposing elements, to such an extent that
some specialized sorcerers dare not leave their towers
on certain days; such is the power of the elements and
magic on Titan!

In some distant lands, primitive tribes still believe that
the world is at, and that the sun (or in many places,
the sun goddess) crosses the sky on a gleaming golden
chariot oncea day, During the night she fights her way
through the underworld, facing terrible dangers in her
Struggic to balance Good and Evil and keep the world
alive. She returns again at dawn the next day, starting
the whole cycle over again. Of course, no civilized
people would ever believe in such things!

FEAST-DAYS AND FESTIVALS

The list which follows gives details of just a few of the
many rituals and celebrations to be found across the
world; we are sure you will encounter more on your
travels.

Night af the Ancestors (first day of Hiding): In the land of
Kaypong, in the city-states around the Glimmering
Sea, and in many other more isolated areas, the people
celebrate the Night of the Ancestors, where they
welcome into their homes all the ghosts of ancestors
gone by, Most years, this consists simply of an awful
lot of singing and dancing, with everyone dressed in
ghoulish masks and costumes decorated to look like
skulls and skeletons, As dawn breaks they run yelping
through every building and out through the gates of
the settlement, symbolizing the departure of the

THE TITAN CALENDAR 115

Measuring the Months

Pacing Out the Days

Again, in different parts of the world there are differ-
ing names and reckonings for the months of any given
year, but in most civilized regions each year is divided
into twelve months. Within each month, the days are
counted out, 5o that in Allansia, for example, a day
might be Seaday, 8th day of Dark, However, there are
two separate reckonings for the days within such
months.

The Ailansian Reckoning. This system makes the
months all different lengths, called by the following
names;

Freeze (31 days)
Dark (28 days)
Unlocking (31 days)
Sowing (30 days)
Winds (31 days)
Warming (30 days)
Fire (31 days)
Watching (31 days)
Reaping (30 days)
Hiding (31 days)
Close (30 day's)
Locking (28 days)

The days are grouped into weeks, each consisting of
seven days. Careful study, however, will show that
this adds up to three day's less than a normal 365-day
year. After Locking, the Allansian calendar adds three
uncounted days for the celebration of New Year.
Children born during this celebration time are con-
sidered very well blessed, and great things are expec-
ted of them. During this time, the cold stillness of the
winter is broken by 72 hours of riotous celebration (see
below for more on New Year and other special days).

— —
NE OW SN SA Wek WN e

The Khulior Reclaiming. For as long as people have
reckoned days and months, the countries of the
mysterious continent have had twelve months, each
exactly 30 days in length, and cach made up of five
weeks of six days apiece. The months are named as
follows:

1. Snow's Cloak
2. Skies in Darkness
3. Land's Awakening
4. Heaven's Weeping
5. Birds Chatter
6. Days Lengthen
7. Cor Ripening
8 Man's Harvesting
9. Forests Golden
10. Nature's Curling
ll, Sun’‘s Hiding
12, Land's Sleeping

At the end of the year, after the month of Land‘s
Sleeping, the peoples of all the countries of civilized
Khul mark New Year with not three but fivy days of
merry-making, though it must be said that in many
parts of the continent the celebrations are more
sombre, as the people give thanks to their various
gods and pray for a prosperous year to come.

[n Allansia (and in the Old World) cach week has
seven days, while in the distant continent of Khul the
people measure a week in six days. The days cach
have these names:

Day of the week Allansian Khulian
First Stormsday Rageday
Second Moonsday Freezeday
Third Fireday Fearday
Fourth Earthday Lifeday
Fifth Windsday Wildday
Sixth Seaday Spiritday
Seventh Highday —

On Highday in many civilized parts of Allansia and in
some of the principalities in the western continent,
and un Spiritday in Khul, most work stops and those
of religious persuasion attend the temples and chapels
to worship their various gods for much of the day,
Spending the rest relaxing in comfort, As with the
various years, astrologers insist that the day of week
determines the character of a child from its birth. A
baby born on Earthday, they say, will be good with his
or her hands, and destined to be a craftsman or a
farmer, but one born on Moonsday will be a scholar or
priest, and will follow the path of learning and
enlightenment. (Incidentally, it is also believed that
most twins are born on Moonsday, and surprisingly
this appears to be true, at least in Allansia,) It is very
definitely true that different types of magic work
better on the days associated with them than on the
days of thelr opposing elements, to such an extent that
some specialized sorcerers dare not leave their lowers
on certain days; such is the power of the elements and
magic on Titan!

In some distant lands, primitive tribes still believe that
the world is flat, and that the sun (or in many places,
the sun goddess) crosses the sky on a gleaming golden
chariot once a day, During the night she fights her way
through the undenvorld, facing terrible dangers in her
strigele to balance Good and Evil and keep the world
alive. She returns again at dawn the next day, starting
the whole cycle over again. Of course, no civilized
people would ever believe in such things!

FEAST-DAYS AND FESTIVALS

The list which follows gives details of just a few of the
many rituals and celebrations to be found across the

world; we are sure you will encounter more on your
travels.

Night of the Ancestors (first day of Hiding): In the land of
Kaypong, in the city-states around the Glimmering
Sea, and in many other more isolated areas, the people
celebrate the Night of the Ancestors, where they
welcome into their homes all the ghosts of ancestors
gone by. Most years, this consists simply of an awful
lot of singing and dancing, with everyone dressed in
ghoulish masks and costumes decorated to look hke
skulls and skeletons. As dawn breaks they run velping
through every building and out through the gates of
the settlement, symbolizing the departure of the

116 TITAN - THE FIGHTING FANTASY WORLD

ancestors’ spits for another year: However,
every ten yearsorso, the ghosts oftheir ancestors ake
‘upon themselves to appear in peeson, whereupon,
the night passes in a serbusly happy’ ial dance of
faleation, with each reveler entwined thems of
hotly forms sshich keep then dancing all night,
Bofore the spies themselves fle with the dawn, The
[ightofthe Ancestors helps the peoplesslionalizethe
deaths of thee loved anes, and demonstrates most
Torcofaly that life and death ate inseparable on Titan

Ctr’ Fest (est Highdoyof Woeming): many
smal villages across Kakhabad and Ruddlestone, the
citizens celebrate the joys of eilahood, by allowing
the children to exchange roles ith al the adults for
day and to have the reedotn of the ville, Everyone
lover siteen years of age must serve the hiker all
Gay, olen potting up with bealings ot thoroughly
lualeroue requests according to the whims of the
impish chldeent The hldren do exactly a= they wan
for ane day, secure inthe knowledge that the alts
arent permitted ogo thelr ovenbsekthe day after, Tt
helps the adults ee what it sie to bea child for &
day, ani is, of course, incredbly good fon forthe
‘younger pattipente

Fut ofthe Waters (various days in Unlocking): Along,
the banks ofriverstike the Elusin Arantisand the Tak
insoutheen Khu ie depends upon the regula loo
Ing the farmland, when the ster Brings ash of
fertile sil in whlch crops ean ours. Therefor, at
the st sgn of Nature's Unlocking’ afer wich the
month is named), the eversidedhwellers bring out
‘caved boats and symbolic wheat and rc stalks nd
‘ler prayers tothei river gods fora heavy an rita
ood, so that they may est over the lean winter
mois to come, In some land iti sad thal annals
and sometimes children ae saclced when the water
‘snot fertheoming,thagh the fath ofthis batbare
pracice has never been properly determined

New Yu ast tree o# five days of yon): Year's Eis
the greatest of al festivals, and is celebrated almost

universally among dhe human races, Iie not known
whether Elves celebrate the passing of another yea,
Duars cersily. do, typically in one vast At of
<runkenness! Ores and other on-humans oecasion
ally elbrate the New Yea, usualy by snerifcing std
fallng aot of other non-humans in a debauched feast
‘of monumental proportions!

‘Humans eclebrate the New Year in many ways, In
Kho, the highly religious zens of Ximoran and.
Buruna seni five days in soll prayer thal em
ples, sopping only onthe evening ofthe ith day for
feasting and celebration, activities which eer al the
more jubilant because of the sombre prayers bfore-
hand InAnaland and Lendlslan, the people
celebrate with hunting. ond ie, with travelling
lradees setting up in vllage market to el al Kids of
exotic wares in Port Blaksand in Allasi, hovveve,
Lord Azzur usually celebrates by exccuting sevens
prominent citizens (and then kindly donating their
Fiches tothe cli’ poor - what a benevolent ruler.

|

THE ADVENTURING LIFE 117

THE ADVENTURING LIFE

| So new you know where to go, whom to make friends MOUNTED TRAVEL
with, and whom te avoid on your travels. But how do
. you get lo where you want to go, and what hazards Horses are the most common mount, and you can buy
will you face as you journey around this wide worldof = 9 average-quality horse in most villages and towns.
ours? Read on and we will tell you. The best horses in all Titan, however, come from the
, plains of Lendleland, where gorgeous black and white
horses nan wild on the grassy expanses. A Lendleland
horse could cost as much as 140) Gold Pieces, unless

Travelling from A(lansia) to you capture and tame it yourself, but it will serve you
B (addu-Bak) faithfully until it dies.

Most races use horses and ponies, even Orcs, who use
them for pulling ore-wagons in their mines. Most
people learn to ride a horse when they are very young,
even if itis just the farm’s cart-horse, and once learnt it
is not something one ever forgets, The nomads who
roam the Flatlands on their shaggy ponies are experts
at performing all kinds uf tasks while on the move,
from firing a bow to sewing up holes in their tents —all
without their hands on the reins! You will not need to
be quite that proficient, but if you can swing a sword in
one hand and hold on with the other, you will do
better than many would-be highwaymen and bandits!

In the first place, you must remember that there are
few fast methods of travel on Titan. While some
wizards have perfected crude ‘Teleportation’ spells
which can take them anywhere they want to go in the
blink of an eye (or more usually take them anywhere
fut where they wanted to go!), and some races, suchas
the Mountain Elves, have access to fast flying beasts
such as Giant Eagles, most people simply journey by
foot, and as a result rarely undertake long journeys.
Apart from the desert nomads, most common people
never stray more than a day's walk from their

birth-place! Another advantage of using a horse is that you can

hitch it toa cart ora travois (two long poles with a sheet
Those people who du move about, especially in the

wilder areas of Titan, are therefore quite unusual. ras

These exceptions to the rule can include noblemen and = SIL WR PON Se

those in their service, who often travel beyond their See Meat SPL NIs Boge a atk
own burders to consult or attack other leaders; mer- foot Bhi 2 AR shee tk ie
chants, who carry goods from where they are made to aE ss PRM es

where they are sold; pilgrims and scholars; soldiers
and crrant mercenaries; a few specialists, such as
wandering minstrels, circuses and the like; and
wandering adventurers, thieves and outlaws. In a
thickly settled part of the world, the roads will be quite
crowded with this sort of traffic, as people move from
one town to the next. In outlying arcas, you are far
more likely to travel for days withoul meeting anyone,

WALKING

While the use of ‘Longshank’'s pony’ is all right for
short journeys of no more than a week, no one in their
right mind would want to walk for greater distances.
While it may be the source of some esteem to become
the first adventurer to walk across the Flatlands, for
example, it will take you four months, and you could
do the journey in half the time on the back of a horse.

However, horses are expensive, and walking does
give you a chance really to get back to nature, As you
stroll along, you can take in everything around you
and enjoy the feeling of being out in the wild. For
walking any great distance you will need a good pair of
stout leather boots, and a staff made from the
smoothed branch of a hardwood tree. The boots will
last you for a long time, #s long as you remember to
take them off when fording rivers, and the staff will
help you stand up when youaretiredand willcomcin = Fe: RZ neem
useful to push your way through scrubland. TE ae

lis TITAN ~ THE FIGHTING FANTASY WORLD

of cloth slung between}, an which you can carry your
belongings or a wounded comrade. In some lands,
nomads actually pull complete houses on wheels
behind them, moving their village wherever they
wish!

Mules and donkeys are slower than horses, and can be
quite uncomfortable to ride, but they can cross terrain
which a horse would refuse to attempt, They are more
useful as pack animals, however, for carrying treasure
or goods across long distances. [n northern lands,
most merchants use long trains of mules to carry their
wares lo their distant markets; when they get there,
they may even sell the mules too, and return on
horseback in comfort.

In the hotter regions, camels take over from horses as
the commonest mounts, They are temperamental
beasts and can be quite frustrating, until you discover
the right commands to make them lower their bodies
for you, or rise up and start walking again. After some
extensive (and infurialing) research, we can reveal
that all camels will drop to their knees for you to
mount if you simply say “Hechiitt!’ in your throat, and
will rise and start walking on ‘Hatt! Hutt!’ -— simple
when you know how, but dreadfully irritating if you
do not. The big advantage of camels, as you may
know, is that they can go for several days without
needing food and water, which can come in handy
when you are lost in the middle of the baking expanses
of the Seythera Desert!

Giant Lizards may strike you as being very impressive
to ride about the world on, but they are surly beasts,
and you need a hide like a Lizard Man's to save you
from getting sure! They do not like cold climates, have
to be fed on a lot of fresh meat every day, and most
villagers will lock their gates if you try to bring such a
beast near them, so they cannot really be recom-
mended as mounts.

Similarly, you should not think of trying to ride a wolf.
itis true that Orcs and Goblins do, and that it can look
very herolc and impressive, but where would you get
4 tame wolf from anyway? You cannot just go up to the
first one you meet in the wilderness and jump on its
back, yelling, “Hiyo, wolfic!’ Orcs have reared wolves
for centuries, and even now the mounts turn on their
riders when there is no better food around.

The fastest way of travelling (short of teleportation} is
to fly on the back of Giant Eagle. As with other wild
creatures, you have to persuade the Eagle to take you
in the first place. Giant Eagles usually allow only very
gentle creatures, such as Elves, on their backs, and
then only under protest. They are noble creatures, and
may feel it is beneath them to carry a lesser being! If
you ever do manage to fly on the back of a Giant Eagle,
however, you will never forget the experience, for
they can fly faster than the wind!

CROSSING THE WATERS

To see all of Titan, however, you will need to sail the
wild oceans in the company of pirates or merchants.
Because of the large distances between the continents,
you may find you have to resort to island-hopping to
reach your goal, but with patience and in time you will
find that you can sail all the way round the world, if
you so desire! The easiest way to cross the seas is to
pay fora passage in a merchant's ship or a warship.
Many captains, however, will want you to work your
passage, This is an ideal opportunity to learn about
shipboard life at first hand, but it can be very hard
work, sixteen hours a day even in the baking sun ora
raging gale. If you are not used to the rocking motion
of a small boat on the sea, you may also learn a fot
about sickness!

Barges. Lung, flat barges operate only on rivers and
along the calmer coast-lines, for they are easily
swamped by large waves. The water-borne trade
between Port Blacksand and Zengis, for example, uses
trains of barges which are sailed up and down the
wide River Kok. You can usually buy passage on a
barge to most riverside destinations in settled lands.

Galleys. These are long, oar-driven ships (though they
carry a few small sails for when the crew needs to be
rested), usually manned by slaves. They are often
used by coastal pirates, as they can be very manoeuvr-
able in combat: skilful rowing can make ther go
backwards, for instance, or turn quickly. They may be
armed with a ram, or 2 catapult to fire blazing bales at
other ships. The northmen of Frostholm in Allansia
use long, square-sailed galleys decorated with Dra-
gons, which they sail far from home to raid isolated
coastal farmsteads and villages.

Merchant Ships. These are typically the same size as
galleys, but wider, with a single mast and a triangular
ateen’ sail, Some also have ports for oars, which can
be used to move the ship around a dock, or when
becalmed. Pirates, however, often use similar ships
for making raids on merchant ships. In this way, they
can get very close to their quarry before ramming them
and swinging men across on ropes to kill and plunder,

Warships. These are few and far between, for there are
few nations rich enough to support a proper navy.
They are fast and manoeuvrable, and can usually
outrun a pirate ship. They are not very seaworthy,
however, and are prone to sink in very rough seas.
Larger than merchant ships, they usually have two or
three masts, a battering-ram just below the waterline
at the front, and strange castle-like constructions at the
prow, from which warriors can leap on to an enemy
ship as soon as it has been rammed. They may also
have large catapults or ballistas.

Roughing It!

When you are wandering through wilder parts of the
world, you will initially have difficulty cating, drink-
ing and camping, and you may be prey toany number
of dangers. There are many hazards to catch the
unwary or inexperienced traveller, and you will
quickly learn from your mistakes —if you are not eaten,
poisoned or whatever first!

Food in the wilderness can be quite a problem, espe-
cially if you are in unfamiliar lands, Many travellers
carry plentiful supplies of provisions with them when
they set off on a journcy, In Analand they prepare
something called vittles, which are small pastry balls
filled with dried meat. They can last for days, and
although you may get bored of cating the same thing,
you can at least be sure you are eating something
which will not poison you,

The same, alas, cannot be said for many fruits and
berries. When you are a long way from the last out-
post, and your food is running low, all bright red
berries look very appetizing, but you should perhaps
remember that they may be bright red to warn
creatures not to eat them! While succulent delights like
the bomba-fruit (a red, apple-like fruit found in many
warm lands) will refresh you, there are things like the
bittersweet, which looks like a bomba-fruit but causes
terrible stomach pains in humans, to catch you out.
You are much safer snaring a few rabbits ora hill-fox -
at least you will know what the food tastes like, even if

THE ADVENTURING LIFE 119

ee

you have to go through the stomach-turning ritual of
skinning and cooking it!

Some experts believe that when camping for the night
you should light a fize, and keep it burning all through
the night, to keep wild beasts away. Unfortunately,
we have found that a fire may also serve to attract all
the wild beasts in the area, who would otherwise have
ignored you! [f you have already attracted the atten-
tions of something dangerous like a pack of wolves,
however, a fire will keep therm off for a while, though
the hungrier they get, the braver they will get too. If
you find yourself stuck in the open surrounded by a
pack of wolves, it is likely that you will not be daing
much sleeping that night! If you are really worried
about wild animals in the night, sleep with your back
to a large tree, or, better still, sleep ap the tree.

There are other dangers in the wild too, but these we
must skip over here; we would not want to discourage
you from venturing out into the world with tales of
wolves and bandits and violent death, now would we?
There is one thing you should know about, however.
In recent years, the yellow plague has re-established
itself in a number of outlying villages in the wilder
parts of Allansia and Kakhabad. While it can be cured
by drinking the juice of the blimberry if spotted in
time, it is often far too late by the time the victim learns
he has the disease. If you enter a country village and
you do not hear the chirping of birds, and dogs do not
run to greet you, and children arc not playing in the
streets, then you should be on your guard!

As you travel around the wide world of Titan, vou
should be careful, but not over-cautious. It can be a
wild, dangerous place at times, but danger is surely
what heroic adventurers like yourself thrive upon’

120 TITAN - THE FIGHTING FANTASY WORLD

Money

Everyone needs money, in onc form or another, if they
are golng to make their way in the world, However, in
different lands what Is regarded as money can take
many different forms,

GOLD PIECES AND OTHER COINAGE

As you may already have gathered, the standard unit
of currency in most civilized human areas is the Gold
Piece. Due to the efforts of traders and merchants,
their size and weight has been made much the same
across the world, They are circular coins (though in
some lands they may be square or octagonal, or have a
hole through the centre), typically between four and
six centimetres across, and weighing eighty or ninety
grams. Depending on the part of the world they are
found in, Gold Pieces may be decorated with
embossed pictures of local kings or gods or even
popular heroes, though most are rubbed almost
smooth after having passed through the hands of so
many people. Some conniving metal-smelters cast
their own gold coins, mixing lead or brass with the
more precious gold to make the latter stretch further.
The penalty for such counterfviting is typically execu:
tion {usually by a particularly unpleasant method,
such as pouring hot lead into the ears). [In some lands
Gold Pieces are given nicknames, such as Kings,
Regals, Sovereigns or Suns, or after a popular version
of the name of the local ruler {coins in Kaypong, for
example, are known as ‘Coggies’, after the city’s ruler,
Baron Kognoy).

A single Gold Piece would typically buy you one
night’s stay in an average-quality inn, or a new dag-
ger, ina busy city, though quite considerably less in an
isolated area which is served only by the infrequent
caravans of swindling merchants (see later for more
details of typical prices), But what happens if you want
to buy just an apple or a loaf of bread, or any other
small item which obviously costs less than a Gold
Piece? In a few countries, smaller Gold Pieces, perhaps
half or quarter the size of a standard piece, have been
minted; these are sometimes known as Princes or
Half-Regals. In other lands, they use Silver Pieces of
much the same size as. a Gold Piece, These are typically
exchanged at a rate of ten Silver Pleces to one Gold
Piece (though some Orc tribes use much larger Silver
Pieces equal to a single Gold Piece, along with their
more usual crude lead and bronze coins). Silver Pieces
are typically nicknamed Silvers, Moons, Stars or
Queens. In some lands, they even cut thelr coins into
halves, quarters or cighths to give change. This tends
to happen only in lands where gold is in plentiful
supply, however, as all those little slivers of gold soon
get lost!

Jn some lands, coins have not yet taken over from
more traditional forms of money. Among the primi-
tive tribes of the eastern Flatlands in central Allansia,
rods of copper and bronze are used as money,
exchanged in just the same way as Gold or Silver
Pieces. To the subhuman Troglodytes which live
beneath the Icefinger Mountains, the number of
human or Dwart bones a person possesses shows how

wealthy they are; cach small finger-bone may be worth
a Gold Plecy to them. A complete set of ribs ora skull
would be a great ~ if rather morbid — fortune!

BARTERING

In every settled land, from barren regions wandered
by desert nomads tu the teeming vermin pits of cities,
people swap things instead of using money. Indced,
in many isolated lands, money and coins are com-
pletely unknown, and people trade only by exchang-
ing things they do not need for items they do. This
‘barter’ system works at all levels, depending on the
quality of the goods involved and the status of the
trading parties: a top-class armourer would not accept
two dozen chickens in exchange for a decorated
breastplate, for example, though a fine jewel-
encrusted sword would be gratefully accepted;
similarly, one would not try ta buy some cheese witha
bag of gems ora golden holy symbol! Bear this in mind
and keep a sense of proportion, and you will not get
into any difficulties, no matter what you want to trade,
or where you are.

TAXES

Taxation is the heaviest burden on anyone wishing to
live ina civilized area under the protection of a king or
nobleman, because armies and fortifications need to
be paid for ~ as do the luxurious trappings of a king's
lifestyle! Some lands, such as the kingdoms of Arion or
Analand, take only minimal taxes from thelr citizens,
because the money gained from taxation is used spar-
ingly and with careful thought, to maintain the
upkeep of the armies and little more; in Analand, most
of the king's income comes from his own trading and
farming concerns, and he asks for next to no money
from his devoted subjects, Many lands, however,
have rulers who rely on the money gained by taxing
their citizens to keep them in the style to which a ruler
rapidly becomes accustumed!

in most cities, the ruling family is allowed to take as
much moncy as they like in taxes. However, every
king knows that taking too much from the citizens
Jeads to riots and maybe even the overthrowing of the
monarch, so most play it safe and rely on a few
common taxes at regular times of the year. In a large
city, such as Salamon in Allansia or Ximoran in Khul,
taxes are typically imposed in two ways. There is
usually a standard tax on anyone passing through a
city gate to trade, and on anyone bringing large
amounts of money into the city — adventurers take
note! Similarly, ships bringing cargo into a port may
have a small tax imposed on the goods they carry,
depending perhaps on their worth to the citizens of
the city. City gates occasionally also carry a small tax
for being opened after sundown for someone to enter
ur leave the city.

When harvest-time comes around in the middle of
autumn, the second tax Is usually imposed, this time
covering all Jands surrounding the city as well as its
residents, On all farmers and landowners, a tax of
between 10 and 15 percent of the value of all crups and
animals is imposed; in the city, the rate may be any-
thing from 2 to 25 per cent of a man’s wealth in real
money (but where money is in short supply many
collectors will take property just a3 happily!). The
‘Summer's End Tax’, as it is known in some lands, is
resented by just about everyone, because no one likes
Jusing any more money than they have to, obviously-
It often results in a frantic dash to hide money and
property from the prying eyes of the hated tax-men,
or, more ludicrously, in farmers putting woolly jackets
on their cattle and calling them ‘sheep’, because sheep

THE ADVENTURING LIFE 121

PRICES ACROSS TITAN

From a very carly age, everyone on Titan learns the
value of money. Despite the miserable citizens of Brice
insisting ‘Gold and all its power are the root of all that's
sour!’, money has a very special meaning fo most
people. To the rich it means another galicy, another
slave-gitl, another fur from Vynheim or another pet
Black Lion from the Plain of Bronze. But to the paor it

can mean the difference between eating today or
tomorrow, between sleeping in the street or in the
warm, between life or death itself.

are worth Jess than cows, and to citizens moving
furniture into their neighbours’ residences while they
are being assessed, and then back again before the tax-
collectors muve next door!

For their own part, the tax-collectors use very devious
means to catch the citizens oul. They keep the dates of
the collection secret as best they can; they set up
checkpoints at all city gales to stop wealthy citizens
smuggling their fortunes out of the city for the dura-
tion; they even dress in disguise and snoop around
beforehand, prepanng a list of everything usually
present on a farm before they arrive to count it offi-
cially the week after. [t can be very dangerous being a
tax-collector, and many have taken to travelling under
a heavily armed escort! For all these reasons, when
taxation time comes around, whole countries slow
down almost toa standstill, and everyone takes part in
the generally good-humoured game of tax-collecting!

TYPICAL COINS

On the left is a typical Gold Plece. This onc is from Port
Blacksand, bearing the arms of the city’s evil ruler,
Lord Azzur, on the front and a picture of a Dragon on
the reverse,

To the right is a slightly smaller Gold Piece minted in
the Dwarf citadel of Fangthane, at the far eastern side
of Allansia. [t bears the crossed axes of Fangthane’s
ruler, King Naméorkill, and the Dwarf Rune on the
reverse. The runic inscription reads ‘Cast in sacred
Fangthane — may it never fall!’

On the bottom left és a small lead coin used by Ores
and Goblins, which appears to have been stamped out
of a sheet of metal, as the two sides are not properly
aligned. They both show the head of some Orc chicf-
tain, whose name seems to have been ‘Scurfric’

The final coin, bottom right, is a Silver Piece from Tak
in southern Khul, It is pierced in the centre for hanging
on @ cord around the owner’s neck — a protection
against that city’s zealous thieves! It shows a trading
galley on one side, and some stylized silver ingots on
the reverse side. Twelve of these coins are worth
1 Gold Piece,

122 TITAN — THE FIGHTING FANTASY WORLD

From the time he or she can talk, most children of poor
or averagely moneyed families are taught to haggle.
Haggling is a sophisticated form of arguing between a
trader and a buyer, where they try to establish a price
both of them are willing to accept, Sometimes it seems
as though the rich disdain to haggle for common
goods, but in fact they usually employ someone to
haggle for them — and even the rich openly haggle for
jewels, furs or slaves. In some lands it is a mark of
great wealth and prosperity not simply to accept and
pay the price a merchant first asks for his wares; in
other lands itis a great insult, as merchants tend to get

left feeling they should haye asked for more in the first
place! As you travel about the world, you will very
quickly learn where to haggle and where not to
haggle, where to refuse to pay what's asked and
where to give in and not buy somewhere clse.

Across Titan, depending upon their availability,
things cost different prices. In the centre of a busy
trading city such as Port Blacksand, Royal Lendie or
Ximoran, even quite rare items ate likely to be fairly
cheap compared to the price you vould have to pay if
you relied on the efforts of a single merchant to get

Description of Item
Ale, flagon
Arrowheads, dozen
Arrows, dozen
Battle-axe

Blanket, large

Boots, strong leather
Bow, long

Bow, short

Breastplate

Candles, dozen

Cloak, wool

Cloak, silk

Crossbow

Crossbow bolts, dozen
Cuirass, chainmail
Culrass, leather
Dagger

Dagger, throwing
Gloves, leather
Grappling-iron
Grindstone

Hamess, horse
Hauberk, chainmail
Hauberk, leather
Herbs, common, per bunch
Herbs, rare

Horse, common type
Horseshoe

Lantern

Meal, hot, in tavern
Meal, cold, in tavern
Quill, ink and paper
Quiver

Robe, linen

Robe, silk

Rope, per metre
Room, shared, per night
Room, single, per night
Sack

Saddle
Shield, small
Shield, large
Spear

Stable, per 24 hours
Sword, long
Sword, short
Tent

Tunic, leather
Tunic, wool
War-hammer
Wine, flagon

Column A Colunnt B Column C
dsp asp asp
25P 2uP tgp
SSP Jgp BP

35gp gp 75EP
2gp 2gp igp
bgp 5gp 10gp
ISgp tgp 25gP
12gp l0gp 22gP
65gp 7Ugp 150gp
isp Isp dsp
10eP Lapp a8p
BP
gp 120gp 1505p
bep Iep Lgp
iOgp COgp \Wep
ep ep SSEP
lgp lgp
gp SBP 10gp
JEP tgp 7EP
l2gp 15gp 3
asp Bsp 12sp
4Ep dep 9
S5gp B0gp 175gp
Mgp 6Sgp
Isp Isp 2sp
Jgp gp Sep
40gp 40gp 5Ogp
3sp 2sp 3sp
2EP Sep 6EP
2gp 2gp 2gp
Rsp 5sp 5sp
lgp 2eP 4gp
lgp 12sp 28p
2EP 3gp 7
l0gp l6gp 24gp
6sp 7sp 15sp
lgp 15sp 2EP
26P = SBP
SP
bgp 7eP 10gp
6p 10gp
6gp Sep l2gp
tgp 8sp
gp 40gp 65gp
= %
3gP 6gp 12gp
2gp 3gp Sep
3gp 40gp 75gp
4sp 6sp 7sp

ee ae eee

—— es oe -

122 TITAN =~ THE FIGHTING FANTASY WORLD

From the time he or she can talk, most children of poor
or averagely moneyed families are taught to haggle.
Haggling is a sophisticated form of arguing between a
trader and a buyer, where they try to establish a price
both of them are willing to accept. Sometimes it seems
as though the rich disdain to haggle for common
goods, but in fact they usually employ someone to
haggle for them ~ and even the rich openly haggle for
jewels, furs or slaves. In some lands it is a mark of
great wealth and prosperity not simply to accept and
pay the price a merchant first asks for his wares; in
other lands it is a great insult, as merchants tend to get

left feeling they should have asked for more in the first
place! As you travel about the world, you will very
quickly learn where to haggle and where not to
haggle, where to refuse to pay what's asked and
where to give in and not buy somewhere else.

Across Titan, depending upon their availability,
things cost different prices. In the centre of a busy
trading city such as Port Blacksand, Royal Lendle or
Ximoran, even quite rare items are likely to be fairly
cheap compared to the price you would have to pay if
you relied on the efforts of a single merchant to get

Description of Item
Ale, flagon
Arrowheads, dozen
Arrows, dozen
Batthe-axe

Blanket, large

Boots, strong leather
Bow, long

Bow, shart
Breastplate

Candles, dozen
Cloak, wool

Cloak, silk
Crossbow

Crossbow bolts, dozen
Cuirass, chainmail
Culrass, leather
Dagger

Dagger, throwing
Gloves, leather
Grappling-iron
Grindstone

Hamess, horse
Hauberk, chainmail
Hauberk, leather
Herbs, common, per bunch
Herbs, rare

Horse, common type
Horseshoe

Lantern

Meal, hot, in tavern
Meal, cold, in tavern
Quill, ink and paper
Quiver

Robe, linen

Robe, silk

Rope, per metre
Room, shared, per night
Room, single, per night
Sack

Saddle

Shield, small

Shield, large

Spear

Stable, per 24 hours
Sword, long

Sword, short

Tent

Tunic, leather
Tunic, wool
War-hammer

Wine, flagon

Column A Colunn B Column C
dsp asp asp
2gp 2gp gp
SP Jgp SEP

a5gp Sep 75gp
2gp 2eP bak
6P
ISgp 12gp EP
Rep l0gp 22gp
6Sgp 70gP 150gp
isp Isp dsp
gp 2gP 6P
10gp 18gp 25ep
Wgp 120gp 150gp
6EP 9gp 15g
40gp 60gP 130gp
gp 25ep 55gp
Isp lgp 2BP
= SS
8P SP
12gp gp
Bsp §sp 12sp
4gp 4gp 9g,
S5gp bgp 17Sgp
25Ep 30gP 65gp
Isp isp 2sp
SEP 6gp Sep
40gp Wp SUgP
3sp 2sp asp
2EP gp 6gP
25p 2gp 25P
sp 5sp Ssp
lgp Zap ‘gp
lgp I2sp 2gp
2ep 3gp 7
10gp l6gp 24gp
ésp 7sp 15sp
lgp 1Ssp 2sp
2gp dep gp
2sp 3sp 5
6gp 7gP ligp
SBP EP 10gp
12gp iSgp 2gp
6gP bgp 12gp
Igp Bsp
30gp 4Ogp 65gP
20gp 2gp S0gP
SEP 4gp 6gP
>sP 6gp 12gp
2sp 3gp Sep
35gp 40gp 75gp

H

"
I]

"

—— <7 Pos .

them to your isolated part of Kaypong or Arantis. The
following list details some of the things you may need
as you travel around Titan; it should help you haggle
down to the right sort of prices in diffcrent parts of the
world. Column A is for a large city where goods are
plentiful and merchants make regular visits. Column
Bis for towns and villages where there is sume local
produce, and regular visits from a few merchants.
Column C shows prices for isolated regions where
there is little exotic food and only intermittent visits
from a single, extremely greedy merchant! Remember
that 10 Silver Pieces (sp) = 1 Gold Piece (gp)-

MERCHANTS AND CARAVANS

‘Never trust a merchant with gold in his ears’ is a very
peculiar saying from Arantis in southern Allansia, but
it reflects the natural distrust common people have of
all merchants and traders. They seem certain that if
someone is selling something - and even worse, has
actually trivelled to you to sell something - then he
must be out to trick or cheat you in some way. Of
course, this is not completely trav, but it does have a
basis in trith, and there are real-life examples of the
dassic ‘cheating merchant’ everywhere you look.
Despite their rather shady reputations, however, mer-
chants are a vital part of the commercial system in all
settled lands,

In cities and larger towns, there are always many
specialist craftsmen, such as jewellers, dyers, herbal-
ists and perfumers, who sometimes need very exotic
ingredients. However, it is an interesting fact that
cities are always situated extremely far away from the
places where the exotic items come from, so mer-
chants and traders are needed to bring the goods from
the outlying lands to the cities. In the outlands, there
are few craftsmen good enough to produce fine
swords, armour or clothing: the lack of customers
makes them stay away. But there are always people
who do want to buy a few choice items, from local
nobility to peasants with thelr sights set on higher
things, and such people can provide a good market for
a crafty trader. So trade can work in both directions ~
providing, of course, the merchant is willing to travel

the long distances needed to get from the cities to the .

outlying lands, and then back again.

If the journey is long, most traders travel as part of
= caravan, accompanied by other merchants, a few
porters and servants perhaps, and a hired escort of
mercenary guards. Bandits are a fairly frequent hazard
to caravans, especially on the prosperous routes, but

THE ADVENTURING LIFE 123

the presence of a dozen or so heavily armed pro-
fessional soldiers should be enough to scare away all
but the strongest threats. Hiring yourself out as @
guard fora merchant is often a good way of travelling
forlong distances —it beats walking, certainly, and has
the added advantages of company, security and pay-
ment at the end of it! There are certainly far worse
ways to travel.

The most popular pack animals are mules, though
they are often replaced by camels in hotter, desert
regions because the latier survive better without
water, One famous merchant, Tadeus Lecarte, was
escarled by two Sabre-toothed Tigers wherever he
went! He had bred the pair, named Fangy and Carny,
since he had found them as cubs on the Plain of Bones,
after they were abandoned by their mother. By the
time they reached adulthood they had become
domesticated cnough to be safe even around humans
they did not know — but it would take only a single
word from Lecarte and they would come running to
his aid. Unfortunately, Lecarte died eight years ago,
after attempting another crossing of the Plain of Bones
— mauled, ironically, by a Sabre-toothed Tiger he tried
to pat, mistaking it in the dark for his own Carny. Itis
not known what happencd to his two pets,

MAIN TRADE-ROUTES

as follows:

Although many traders prefer striking out on their own, increasing numbers of bandits, roving Orc bands
and other threats have meant that more popular trade-routes have arisen, where one can be sure of meeting
with a fellow traveller at least once a day, and where one knows that there are always regular armed patrols.
There are many trade-routes on all three continents, but the main oncs, and the special gauds they carry are

Zengis to Salamonis, via Fang. Anvil, Stonebridge and Chatice: spices, furs, silver, gold, Dwarf goods, northman
goods from Vynhcim. The route from Zengis to Fang is open from Sowing to Hiding only.

Pollua to Rowtl Lendte, vit Chalrnnabrad and Crystal City: glowstones, minerals, spices, cloth, leather goods.
Kalagar to Ximoran, via Askkyos anit Djtretta: gold, copper, ivory, furs, metal ware.

1U TITAN ~ THE FIGHTING FANTASY WORLD

Inns and Taverns

So now you know about money: pethaps you would
like somewhere ta spend I? Well where elie but an
innarataver, where youcan bons about you heroic
adventures, meet up With other brave adventurers,
nd relax witha lagon or sb fale? You willalsoneced
jin, since safe pees asta inthe open arerae; most
fensible adventurers time their day's joumey,
‘wherever possible, to arve i a village with an im
justasthesun sets Andwhile you arerestingbetwcen
dentures, you will eenaaly have need ofa inn, for
an active, dangerseeking her lke yourself would
never settle down in one place long enough to buy 3
regularhome- wel, not fora few years anya?

“Tan and ‘tavern are Infact, the names of two quite
diffrent types ofdrinkingestablishnents Ina avert,
{you can allay gota drink, and occasionally some
Taodand entertainment oo:in an inn, yowcansay the
night and maybe even stable your horse, as Well =
dink and eal. While you are om the road jou vil
‘efiitely need the services of an inn; at ether times
tavern oil suc,

Both types of estalihment serve many functions for
‘he people who usethem Thelocalalhosseis always
‘he hese of any village, ae its here that all the men
rect of an evening. Gossip and local news are
exchanged, stories ae tol, legends are retold, and
seul all ig an atmosphere of great convivial. IF
you find yourself in a countey tn or tavern forthe
evening, you il more than likely find yourself asked
about events in other pars ofthe wold: for many
ountey people, tavallers such a yourself will be the
‘only carers evs they eversee. Gossipcanbe grt
fun to Iisten fo, though it can sometimes ten out
dangecous. Ina tavern frequented by thelocl thieves,
the last thing you want to dos get caught eavesdrop.
pingon someone planning thelrnext big job!

In any good inn there will be plenty of travelers
saying the night rather than spending risky night
‘ut in the open: highwaymen, wolves, bandts and
worse are enough to persuade most people to stay
indoors until sunrise! There may be adventurers ike
Yourself, ich merchants nd thee entourage of boxy
‘uards and maybe a few slaves or pilgrims on their
‘way to worship at some nearby holy shrine. All have
thelr stories to tell and any one of them can prove
most entertaining. in ety taverns, the clientele enoy
{ng hetrdrinks might ange rom professional people,
such as serbes or saver, alltamen or asassng
Tocal citizens, rains or even beggars. You will
{bic lesen that every in or tavern haa sown
peculaties, which may tm ov tobe entertaining or
pets. Every inn and tavern looks differen too, but
for simpiciy’s sake we have divided them up into
fev types.

(ity Pers, These are ely tobe small and camped,
fand often very hot and crowded by the evening
CCnsistng of only one, of perhaps two rooms, they
‘may nevertheless be divided int small booths fo the
pelacy of thei customers. Walle personal sevice i
rot cut ofthe question, many se the newfangled
method of buying one’s own drinks tthe bor rales
than calling someone over lo your table. The atmos
Phere may be vsvdy and sweaty or tonse and con
Epliaorl, depending upon who uses the ela
‘ent buts stranger il arly atract mach attention.

Some ites impore rather annoying opening and clos:
ing times on thee tavers, inthe hope tht some of
these clzens vil do some work in the aftemoons
instend of sting dainking: unfortunatly, to get
around the dosing times many revellers drink more
than they should before the tavern shuts, and spend
thei aftemoons a thelr work ina very unproductive
drunken state anyway! Typical oy aveens include
“The Hog and Frog’ it Port Blcksand, "The Bate of
‘Skynet Royal Lendl or The Man Upside Dow
Ximoron

Coumiry Trees. Unlike their ty-based counterpts,
these may be massive alehouses, bulloutof stone and
Ine beams of Uber, and: made up of dozen or #0
inal chambers gathered aound a ceteal apron,
‘here bares ine the walls and serng-enches fil
Magons of ale to bring to your table, There fs key,
especially in winter, to bea great Bre ia the centre of
the oom, and cartwheels of eandes hanging rom the
cling to lve plenty of ight these ate also useful for
‘Swinging acres the root dung a unch-up!), The
atmosphere I key tobe dense with sake and the
Smal of stil, andthe stay Noor may be hick with
‘aud by he en of the evening In «county tavern,
thearrvalofastianger may resultina sen, highly
embarassing silence, especially i the tavern fs a
Slated aner We do not have any advice on how lo
cope with moments ke this one usally jut res ©
{gore it and onder a drink, You should let the other
tikes soe that you ae just 2 normal human being
Tike the est of them... unless, ofcourse, you are an
(Ozeora Werewolf or something! Exaanples of typical
country taverns Include “Hollgrin’s Alehouse in
‘Anvil, "The Bostling Brste-Deast” in Florin or ‘The
Bent Spear in Fenmarge.

City ts. There are bo dstint types of cty inn. The
fitype esters for anylcaladventoes, professional
people and others wo prefer to stay i an in rather
fan purchase orrent aceommuation. Such Ins may
also be fous alongalde docks in harbor area, pro
‘iding temporary ecommodation for ship’ crvis —
nd maybe even stringing up hammocks iestead of
bess al serving tadiuonal seafarers grog in prer-
fence toate! Teseinns are typuealy quite small with a
‘Single bserooun fr customers and guests aie, “The
Black Lobster in Port Blacksand is such an inn.

“The second type Is often found on the edge of city,
fear a main git, fori eaters almost exclusively for
fravellss entering o leaving the city Indeed some,
such ag “The Wynn” ia Chalannabrad, age actualy
bull nto arches over ane ofthe main thoroughlares.
‘They wevlly revolve around a contra courtyand,
‘Which the guestrooms overlook, There will aso be

‘THE ADVENTURING LIFE 12

stables, and probably the services of an ost, black
tanith or whesright, either on the premises oF a
Teast clase by. The karzeom may be quite small oF
divided into. a umber of small rooms, where
{individual parties of travellerscan rela together aay
‘Hog oer guests Inns ofthis or include The Way
farers Rest in Khare and The King’s Highway" In
Dieta.

Country bs Out in the countryside inns aro mare ke
taverns, unless they are on very busy rords, in which
hoe they wl be sche ay inn, Thay il gain
be based around a courtyard, and have stables foe
lunvelles’ horses or cartiages, They may havea num
ero small guestrooms, 28 does ty in, but ll
‘usualy alo have a main drinking-room forthe more
local dienes Such inns ave he usual haunts of
highwvaymen or smugglers and may prove la be quite
pails places if you ate not careful The best advice
‘recon gives to goto bed as usual and not investigate
any stage noises you hearin the ight (unless there
|i Someone siding, Your pockes, ofcourse!) ~ and
slways keep your svrrd handy, jst in case Very
Suange tings go on in some country inns; though
rust be said that there arejastas many whore nothing
‘utofthe ordinary ever happens. Fypicl country inns
Inalude’The Hanging Panty near Silverton, "The Great
Wallin Cantopaniand King Gregor's Fingers” onthe
road south of Ximoran,

ALE AND OTHER DRINKS.

One of hemos! important activities shich people visit
‘aves foris, of cause, drinking. Insome areas there
[Enchoiceryou drink the lease or you do not dein

sf But in towns and lege villages things canbe a
Ttde more tized, with ales, wines and spits frm
allover Titan. Some beverages are very famous across
‘whole continents for ther potency or pect
avoursson your rave you wil nd it worthieie to
sample many diferent types, but be warmed ~ some
‘drinks area lille stonger than others!

ESS

FAMOUS ALES AND SPIRITS
large Hil Ginn! wth aca Tt costs gpa ago.

Quin Water Found only in Qui in Bec

Sap shal agen.

looks hike water,
‘wll lla mans wsually served in ny thimbles, around 10gp shot!

Calablood River, andl dyed red foreffect.Itsactually madeby taking ve dozen cats, and slowly

‘Stutuster: A Dwartspecay, a deep brown sprit made fom disiling wheat shoush
boulders. Vouhave lo bea Dorf to enoy the vor lly ste, butt ll pot any non Dr
Intivee minutes it. Hecate 23pa shot, an i found onlin noth ee

Gaur Ore al. Do ot drink it i you value the ning of your so

Hous Spel Blue A weit, Bue tinted ae found in westeen Allansia, Two Aagonsare enough to stun a

ose wate, ad three small measures

Bara Cats very ight and sweet ae from Kul Thought by most ta brewed fom the water the
heosts

allan

126 TITAN — THE FIGHTING FANTASY WORLD

OTHER AMENITIES

Tavern food is usually not as bad as many make out
(though sometimes, of coursc, itis far, far worsc!). itis
just that, in some parts of the world, the names of
some foods sound a little strange. Our stomachs, too,
would initially turn over at the thought of something
like ‘devilled Bristle-Beast kidneys’, but In fact this is a
very tasty, filling dish found in suuthern Kakhabad
and northern Analand., If you keep an open mind, and
are courteous when you casually ask what a particular
dish contains {and even more courteous if the descrip-
tion which follows makes you want to spit if out
immediately!), you will have few problems with food
when you travel the world.

Many taverns have their own special brands of smok-
ing-weed, which they sell to anyone who wishes to
have a relaxing smoke after their meal or with a drink,
if you bring a foreign type of tobacco intoa tavern with
you, do not forget that you may be expected to offer a
sample to anyone who inquires after it, Whatever you
do, beware any smoking-weed offered you in very hot
places, such as any of the cities around the Inland Sea
in Khul. If you have never tried it before, you can
guarantee that the stuff will send you to sleep or make
your mind go fuzzy, and you will be robbed of all your
belongings in an instant. In some parts of the world,
smoking am damage your health!

ENTERTAINMENT!

One of the highlights of visiting any inn or tavern is
the entertainment which may be found there. Regular
appearances by minstrels, exotic dancers or perform-
ing animals are guaranteed to bring crowds of
customers flocking to a particular hostelry for an
evening, thus bringing extra profits for the innkeeper!
In small village taverns the only entertainment might
be one of the locals with his finger stuck in his car
yelling a few popular songs at the top of his voice, but
there are sometimes visits from wandering minstrels,
players or circus acts. In the larger towns or citics, and
especially sea-ports, there may be entertainers from all
comers of the globe. Just about any act you can
imagine, and a great many you cannot, can usually be
found ina vermin pit like Port Blacksand or the City of
Mazes.

Also very popular in taverns and alehouses across the
settled world are gambling games. There are a great
many different games — every little corner of Titan
seems to have its own favourite, and even when
particular areas have a game in common, the rules are
often different. Here are three of our favourites; we
know you will find your own, whether it be in the
infamous Gambling Halls of Vlada in Kharé, or in
some windswept little tavern hidden in the wastes of
the Pagan Plains,

Mumblypey, Also known as Pinfinger in some places,
this is a very simple game, but requires good dexterity
to be played well. All you dois take a dagger, and stab
the point between the fingers of your hand as it rests
on the table-top. As the stakes get higher and higher,
the stabs get quicker and harder, Flowing blood indi-
cates that the game is over!

wes x
- «Ses

3" -

Knifey-Knifey, Also known as Kharéan Roulette, this
game is outlawed in most countries, for it invariably
ends in death, Six identical daggers lie on a table; one
is real while the other five have retractable blades
which will do no harm. In turn, each player selects a
dagger and quickly stabs himself in the chest with it. If
itis a fake, it is returned to the table, shuffled together
with the others, and the game continues; if it is real,
death for the unfortunate player is certain. The game
continues unti] only one player survives. Thisis a very
exciting game to watch, but not to play (Knifcy-Knifey
experts are few and far between, but usually very,
very rich).

Ten-Ten, This is probably our favourite game (you will
often find us playing it in our local tavern, ‘The Sage
and Scholar’, of a lunchtime). It uses a board, covered
with 64 squares, in each of which there is a number
from 1 to 9, Half the squares are black, while the other
half are white. Each player simply throws a dart at the
board in turn, Black numbers count towards the total,
but white ones are subtracted from the total. The game
continues until a player hits.a number which takes the
score to exactly ten or minus ten, whereupon he takes
the contents of the pot. This game is especially popular
in Analand and Ruddlestone on the western con-
tinent, but is played in most civilized cities across
Titan.

DANGEROUS DRINKING

Occasionally, without warning, you may suddenly
find yourself in the middle of a bar full of burly
warriors, all intent on bashing lumps out of one
another! Bar-room brawls are especially common in
rough taverns in dockland areas of evil cities such as
Blacksand or the City of Mazes, and once somcone

— — oe

»
7

MANY

—_-

—

l FIRST FLOOR

-THE BLACK LOBSTER TAVERN

PORT BLACKSAND

GROUND FLOOR

THE ADVENTURING LIFE 127

CELLAR

wants to start one, there is precious little you can do
except grit your teeth and lay into whoever comes
dose, and remember to get out before the Watch
arrives! But brawls are sometimes the least of your
worries, for there are much more sinister things going
on in some inns and taverns.

Smugglers are very common in some coastal areas,
especially near ports which charge extortionalely high
trading-taxes. Taverns offer an ideal base, for most
have deep cellars in which great amounts of contra-
band can be stored. Theirs is a very dangerous game,
and they can be very ruthless people. So are highway-
men and bandits, who operate in country areas away
from large towns but close to the major trade-routes.
The most famous highwayman of all, Grinning Lord
Dorian, worked along the roads between Port Black-
sand and the interior of settled Allansia, robbing
mercharus, carriages, messengers and lone travellers,
and operating out of The Orc’s Torso‘ on the road to
Stonebridge. He was a master swordsman and a
superb shot with a crossbow, but Ironically he was
killed when his horse, Blue Boris, ran into a tree after
an unsuccessful attempt to rob the wizard Nicodemus
(who was travelling in disguise).

Most dangerous of all are crooked landlords who
throw in their lot with thieves and prey on their own
guests. The near-legendary Erlik Vinner of Rorotuna
constructed an entire death-trap within his inn,
Guests would lie in their beds, and suddenly be
flipped backwards, down a chute and into a steaming
vat of boiling water. Vinner would steal their belong-

ings, and then claim next morning that the guest had
fled without paying his or her bill! Vinner’s inn, ‘The
Happy Landlord’, was also famous for its peculiar but
tasty stews...

A TYPICAL INN: ‘THE BLACK
LOBSTER’ IN PORT BLACKSAND

‘The Black Lobster’ is a renowned dockland Inn, much
frequented by pirate crews and thcir captains. It is
owned by ‘Laughing’ Guidon Allierté, who also owns
two taverns in Rimon, and three in Halak, further
down the coast. As a result, ‘The Black Lobster’ is left
to itself most of the time, run by a succession of
barmen under the watchful cyc of Allierté’s nephew,
Halron, who is more concerned with drinking the
profits than making them! The Allierté family have
owned taverns in Allansia for many years, and they
have built up strong tes with several pirate captains,
who always bring their custom to Allierté's joints
when in port. It is thought that Garius of Halak is one
of these, though he has never been caught there by the
militiamen who raid the place infrequently.

‘The Black Lobster’ is a typical city tavern, with a
single, average-sized bar and a number of small
booths. Its rooms are filthy and bug-ridden, but at
least they are not shared with other guests, and they
are not overpriced at Igp a night. The bar serves a
number of local ales and spirits, as well as seamen’s
grog made from cane sugar all the way from Arantis.
Its clientele is invariably half pirate and half adven-
turer (often looking for passage on a pirate ship).

128 TITAN - THE FIGHTING FANTASY WORLD

FAREWELL, BRAVE ADVENTURER!

Su now you have reached the end af our book, and
where better to end than in a tavern, relaxing with a
flagon of ale while you slowly take in all that you have
seen and heard on our massive trip around the world
of Titan? We are sure you will agree with us when we
say that it isa very strange and perilous place, but itis
truc thatitcan bea very rewarding one too, ifyou keep
your wits about you.

All that remains now, of course, is for you to go and
pul all this information into practice! If you were not
an adventurer before you read this book, we hope we
have woken your mind to such a possibility. There are
fortunes to be made out there in the big, wide world,
wrongs to be righted, evil to be fought, heroes to be
made. Perhaps you will be one of the herves of the
future.

And if you are already an adventurer, we sincerely
hope that you have learnt something from our humble
work, To you, sir or madam, we tip our conical hats
and pray forgivencss if we have made any errors in
this book, or under-emphasized some dangers, or let
some evil beings off a little lightly compared with your
condemnation of their wickedness. We are only
human, and we have not benefited from the first-hand
experience which is the sale province of adventurers
such as your very good selves.

To all our readers, we wish a long and happy life,
though we hope it is an exciting one too. If you should
ever pass through Salamonis, we would be delighted
to receive you in our humble chambers in the Palace of
Learning, and to hear something of your marvellous
adventures.

May the gods protect you always!

r that they remained in contact
joined forces in 1975 to build their fi
“emipire of fantasy, Games Workshop. ‘They
other adventurers thro

kof Firetop Mourttain, which was uy

‘the contin nisia, it was
nd viemsely

fay, TL was the first of the Fight

Rs, and many more quic

the Sorcery! epi

likely theory is that
jthey can be fo
exchanging tales

THE ULTIMATE FIGHTING FANTASY HANDBOOK!

You met the monsters in OUT OF THE PIT — now meet the rest of the Fighting
Fantasy world! No adventurer should be without this essential guide. TITAN
contains everything you need to know, covering the turbulent history of the
world, from its creation and early civilizations — through the devastating War of
the Wizards — to the present-day wilderness and anarchy where the delicate
balance between Good and Chaos could at any moment be overturned .

U.K. ;
AUST. $19.95 a Ea: f ie
(recommended) 4 eae A 5 9 "780140°321272

MZ. $18.99
ma ISBN O-1L4-OQ3ele?-t

